of course you must have been surprised , but the explanation is very simple .
are you coming up ?
but how about his food ?
another , lucy parr , the second waiting maid , has only been in my service a few months .
i could not , mr holmes , i could not !
it came right over the forehead and settled upon the bridge of his nose .
someone , then , cut out the message with a pair of short bladed scissors , pasted it with paste
from that day they were seen no more in england .
he had made a very considerable fortune in the states , and his reason for leaving them was his aversion to the negroes , and his dislike of the republican policy in extending the franchise to them .
i think that i am fairly justified in my inferences .
but if you are a freeman , jack , why should you not go down and make a friend of boss mcginty ?
i did not know who you were , but i was determined to find out .
i guess you 'll see her before long .
good god !
but how did he come by his death ?
at last , having collected enough to keep life in him , he departed for europe , and tracked his enemies from city to city , working his way in any menial capacity , but never overtaking the fugitives .
i understood that it did not open .
the more i thought , the more extraordinary and inexplicable did it appear .
that 's your line of life , sir , and you may take the word of a man who has seen something of the world .
we are making for the surrey side , apparently .
it was the former who forced the pace .
threatens to send them the photograph .
yes , yes , it 's all right ,
on the question of whether she had been shot or had shot herself , he would not venture to express any decided opinion .
in your own case ,
the quicker the better for he is as strong a man as i , and i may have more than i can manage .
it makes a considerable difference to me , having someone with me on whom i can thoroughly rely .
see that light among the trees ?
for this reason i saw a good deal of sir charles baskerville .
as west forced his way after us into the house oberstein struck him on the head .
what have we here ?
for example , how did you deduce that this man was intellectual ?
he leaned upon his hand , with his untasted breakfast before him , and he stared at the slip of paper which he had just drawn from its envelope .
as he loved his cousin , however , there was an excellent explanation why he should retain her secret the more so as the secret was a disgraceful one .
the point is a simple one , but the inspector had overlooked it because he had started with the supposition that these county magnates had had nothing to do with the matter .
then i trust that you at least will honour me with your company ,
never have i felt such a cold chill of disappointment , watson .
how do you explain it ?
she is an invalid lady , sir her husband was once mayor of gloucester .
i never dreamed of his getting into the house and waiting for me .
we ought to be able to catch anything on the river ,
here it is !
the miner lowered his voice over the affairs .
because i received help in the interval from another source .
he cried , with his hands up .
i had hoped that in some way i could coax my companion back into the quiet which had been the object of our journey but one glance at his intense face and contracted eyebrows told me how vain was now the expectation .
he was pacing swiftly up and down his room .
stanley hopkins drew from his pocket a drab covered notebook .
i have never known him so brilliant .
of your return from plymouth , allowing much of your property to go on to africa , i will say nothing save that it first informed me that you were one of the factors which had to be taken into account in reconstructing this drama
there was this tobacco pouch upon the table .
by the purest chance blessington was out on each occasion .
the more frequented roads were strictly watched and guarded , and none could pass along them without an order from the council .
that is the great grimpen mire ,
anything else ?
yes , i am determined .
exactly !
afterwards he read the daily herald .
there were several people on the pavement at the time , but the greeting appeared to come from a slim youth in an ulster who had hurried by .
i am afraid that i am still a sceptic ,
sure thing .
hunter , on recovering from his stupor , was also quite positive as to the ownership of the cravat .
holmes laughed at my suggestion .
in one hour and five minutes i meet him at waterloo station .
a key was hung by a silken cord to that carved handle upon the top .
he had set the engine at work .
perhaps , if you loved a woman , you would have done as much yourself .
one thing only appears to be certain , and that is that mr james desmond , who is the next heir , is an elderly gentleman of a very amiable disposition , so that this persecution does not arise from him .
the young man took from his waistcoat a crumpled envelope , and turning to the table he shook out upon it five little dried orange pips .
stolen , then .
here is the letter which i had this morning acknowledging my assistance .
in doing so ,
it 's devilish , mr holmes , devilish !
nor is nature always in one mood throughout this grim district .
our boilers were strained to their utmost , and the frail shell vibrated and creaked with the fierce energy which was driving us along .
my poor friend 's face had suddenly assumed the most dreadful expression .
the lady has never been in america in all her life .
in some ways they have within the last forty eight hours become much clearer and in some ways they have become more complicated .
it does seem a very preposterous way of settling a dispute .
she pleaded , in a frenzy of supplication .
beyond that the hills become precipitous .
i did exactly what you advised .
however , wretch as he was , he was still living under the shield of british law , and i have no doubt , inspector , that you will see that , though that shield may fail to guard , the sword of justice is still there to avenge .
yes , it must be so .
sherlock holmes sat down beside him on the couch and patted him kindly on the shoulder .
it is suggestive that anthony is not a common name in england , while antonio is so in all spanish or spanish american countries .
he has died within ten seconds of being bitten .
i looked at the clock .
we will suppose first that some person or persons inside the house did the crime .
the beautiful italian looked with awe at my companion .
but we have no warrant for his arrest .
but with me there is a limit , and when i find a man who keeps his cigars in the coal scuttle , his tobacco in the toe end of a persian slipper , and his unanswered correspondence transfixed by a jack knife into the very centre of his wooden mantelpiece , then i begin to give myself virtuous airs .
but what is that compared with the number of your successes ?
of all ghosts the ghosts of our old lovers are the worst .
in front a continuous stream of hansoms and four wheelers were rattling up , discharging their cargoes of shirt fronted men and beshawled , bediamonded women .
do you imagine that i have no respect for your medical talents ?
he told me that old mrs porter had sent a boy down with an urgent message .
yes , i am .
but you were on a friendly footing ?
i knew black peter , and when he pulled out his knife i whipped a harpoon through him sharp , for i knew that it was him or me .
i am sure of it .
no , no , not the sole , not the sole , my dear young lady , ' he cried .
the servants were cross questioned , but none of them had heard of such a place .
i must go out alone .
perhaps it would interest you to hear what he says .
what did she really want ?
well , then , in the first place i shall want a fast police boat a steam launch to be at the westminster stairs at seven o'clock .
it was , indeed , our friend the financier .
let us go across to the smithy .
things went on much as before , but after a time i began to find that there was a bit of a change in mary herself .
cried the inspector .
it is true that i have had only the one glance at him , and yet there are some things to which i am ready to swear .
have you heard the name ?
i understand that it was on a professional matter that you wished to speak to me ?
with all our precautions , you see that we have cut it rather fine ,
i 'd start this next minute if i knew where we could find him ,
his head sank back upon the pillow and he gave a deep sigh of relief as i replaced the box upon the mantelpiece .
yelled the voice .
i was well aware that you could not do this without thinking of the mission which he undertook on behalf of the north at the time of the civil war , for i remember you expressing your passionate indignation at the way in which he was received by the more turbulent of our people .
mr sherlock holmes listened with attention to the long report which i was able to present to him that evening , but it did not elicit that word of curt praise which i had hoped for and should have valued .
but why should you wish to go into so horrible a place ?
he sprang up and rushed across the stable to unloose the dog .
good heavens , holmes !
you hope to place me in the dock .
there 's no doubt about the authenticity , for the name and the date , , are on the back of the canvas .
oh , my night could not be called monotonous ,
you 've seen how he 's been opening his mouth against us again ?
have your pistol ready in case we should need it .
that 's enough for most folk in these parts .
but i 'm at the end of my patience , and when it comes to knocking my old man about
holmes and i walked along the broad , sandy road inhaling the fresh morning air and rejoicing in the music of the birds and the fresh breath of the spring .
she wanted to see where the crime was done had read about it in the papers , she said .
charles ' head was still firm on his shoulders when this little brown backed volume was struck off .
cried carruthers , springing out of his chair .
the only tangible fact was that the commissionnaire 's wife mrs tangey was the name had hurried out of the place .
i had my plans arranged by which i should have the opportunity of making the man who had wronged me understand that his old sin had found him out .
i would lay a thousand to one against him .
well , i have drawn my circle , and i only wish i knew at what point upon it the folk that we are in search of are to be found .
he was decidedly frigid in his manner to us , especially when he heard the errand upon which we had come .
and another thousand to the man who will name the person or persons who keep him in custody ?
thus encouraged , our scientific friend drew his papers from his pocket and presented the whole case as he had done upon the morning before .
we had crossed oxford street and were half way down harley street before i could get a word from my companion .
the first ran :
inside were half a dozen spines of dark wood , sharp at one end and rounded at the other , like that which had struck bartholomew sholto .
if you would have the great kindness to get rid of that sottish friend of yours i should be exceedingly glad to have a little talk with you .
he had come to the conclusion that it was somewhere indoors : so he worked out all the cubic space of the house , and made measurements everywhere , so that not one inch should be unaccounted for .
there is no smell which might have interfered with his power of scent .
it 's only due to my own credit to do so .
when we got back to scotland it was easily hushed up , and nobody asked any questions .
we should be rich men if we had pounds for every poor devil who has been done to death in that den .
holmes was so charmed with one of them that he insisted on drawing it in his notebook , broke his pencil , had to borrow one from our host and finally borrowed a knife to sharpen his own .
your father ,
there goes your last shred of evidence .
it is a singular thing , but i find that a concentrated atmosphere helps a concentration of thought .
it is something much more valuable to us .
no , we are on the true scent now .
the two warders had been shot and thrown overboard , and so also had the third mate .
dark rumors gathered round him in the university town , and eventually he was compelled to resign his chair and to come down to london , where he set up as an army coach .
it was a blazing hot day in august .
mr scott eccles had fidgeted in his seat during this conversation .
having got the doctor 's general direction , i spent the day in visiting all the villages upon that side of cambridge , and comparing notes with publicans and other local news agencies .
this man has written the name , and there has then been a pause before he wrote the address , which can only mean that he was not familiar with it .
where were my proofs ?
you have had your revenge upon them .
i will not look .
but the production of the photograph had a remarkable effect upon the manager .
yes , i did write it ,
even now , after this long interval , i find myself thrilling as i think of it , and feeling once more that sudden flood of joy , amazement , and incredulity which utterly submerged my mind .
returned my companion .
oh , dr mortimer , dr mortimer , to think that you should not have called me in !
no , there !
as to what it was he feared , we can only deduce that by considering the formidable letters which were received by himself and his successors .
he has nerve and he has knowledge .
i could see little of him , for he was gone like a flash .
might i ask you to hand me my violin , and we will postpone all further thought upon this business until we have had the advantage of meeting dr mortimer and sir henry baskerville in the morning .
all is in order and this is your man ,
but the german went without his socks .
they talk of woman 's instinct perhaps it was woman 's instinct which gave me that feeling .
nothing came out though .
he could carve a bit , and gild and frame , and do odd jobs .
many a man has had the life beaten out of him for less .
what will you say ?
to james mortimer , m .
she did not think so .
now , however , i have arrived at a point in my narrative where i am compelled to abandon this method and to trust once more to my recollections , aided by the diary which i kept at the time .
cried morris with vehemence .
that depends on how it turns out .
it will be obvious that any details which would help the reader exactly to identify the college or the criminal would be injudicious and offensive .
he seemed a little crestfallen at the discovery .
that one is politics .
she told me all about her , about him , about everything .
his uncle had died , leaving him a fortune , and he had left the army , yet he could stoop to treat five men as he had treated us .
i should wish to .
it would all end , as it had done in the past , in aimless talk and possibly in impotent arrests .
once again he was nearly killed , and once again under the name of douglas he worked in a lonely canyon , where with an english partner named barker he amassed a fortune .
both of them were smoking cigars , and coffee and wine were in front of them .
i realized it as i drove back and noted how hill after hill showed traces of the ancient people .
holmes is a little too scientific for my tastes it approaches to cold bloodedness .
very , indeed .
but that again would mean a confession of the past .
once from the back of his waist he produced something which one would hardly have expected to find in the possession of so mild mannered a man .
i cold see by the gleam in holmes 's eyes that he thought we were nearing the end of our journey .
he was clearly so scared by his mischance in breaking the window and by the approach of peterson that he thought of nothing but flight , but since then he must have bitterly regretted the impulse which caused him to drop his bird .
the household at the abbey grange were much surprised at our return , but sherlock holmes , finding that stanley hopkins had gone off to report to headquarters , took possession of the dining room , locked the door upon the inside , and devoted himself for two hours to one of those minute and laborious investigations which form the solid basis on which his brilliant edifices of deduction were reared .
the case would then never go into court at all .
during the first week of july , my friend had been absent so often and so long from our lodgings that i knew he had something on hand .
those were the early days at the end of the ' ' s , when alec macdonald was far from having attained the national fame which he has now achieved .
have you any old elms ?
i found that country pub which i had already recommended to your notice , and there i made my discreet inquiries .
i will come , with pleasure ,
our inquiry has already narrowed down to that .
it was absolutely necessary to expose it .
we must come back in the afternoon , if mr harding will not be here until then .
you certainly have the air of something unusual having occurred ,
in this particular corner of the room a large piece had peeled off , leaving a yellow square of coarse plastering .
my collection of m 's is a fine one ,
he stammered .
i 've seen nothing later than the fifteenth century to day .
yes , that was so .
there we were all four tied by the leg and with precious little chance of ever getting out again , while we each held a secret which might have put each of us in a palace if we could only have made use of it .
i had always known him to be restless in his manner , but on this particular occasion he was in such a state of uncontrollable agitation that it was clear something very unusual had occurred .
now , first of all , presuming that the assassin entered the house , how did he or she come in ?
now , tell me , dr mortimer and this is important the marks which you saw were on the path and not on the grass ?
yes , mr holmes .
miss susan cushing , living at cross street , croydon , has been made the victim of what must be regarded as a peculiarly revolting practical joke unless some more sinister meaning should prove to be attached to the incident .
i am but thirty now .
was printed across it in large letters , and , underneath ,
the question now is about hoemoglobin .
there is a small matter to night in which you may take a hand if it so please you .
sir charles had the reputation of being rich , but we did not know how very rich he was until we came to examine his securities .
there was no lounger who could tell us who had passed .
oh , you must not discourage me , mr holmes .
very glad i should be , sir , to see sir henry on his way back to london again !
at the same instant a tall , loose framed young man with a clean shaved , earnest face advanced eagerly towards the pit head .
so you have instructed a detective ?
dirty ?
do n't you see that the converse is equally valid .
you can imagine , mr holmes , that i was not in a humour to refuse him anything that he might ask .
she sat down in the chair which he had indicated .
by thunder , if that chap can n't find my missing boot there will be trouble .
i have no wish ever to score at their expense .
why should we not leave together ?
i glanced my eyes down it , catching a profusion of notes of admiration , with stray magnifiques , coup de maitres , and tours de force , all testifying to the ardent admiration of the frenchman .
the investigation really was a very simple one ,
he raised the hand lamp and walked slowly round the room .
friend sholto is safe , at any rate .
we were returning from the watt street mission about a quarter to nine o'clock .
and what is the third source from which each of them sought for help against pressing danger ?
his nephew , watson i had suspicions of foul play and i allowed him to see it .
i had come to these conclusions before ever i had entered his room .
is that serious ?
come along , doctor ,
shot through the heart , sir , and never spoke again .
i feared that no telegram would convince you of the absolute urgency of the case .
what are you going to do , then ?
mr sherlock holmes , who was usually very late in the mornings , save upon those not infrequent occasions when he was up all night , was seated at the breakfast table .
he liked best to stay and to work at our claim in the mountains .
well , she had a slate coloured , broad brimmed straw hat , with a feather of a brickish red .
thus pressed by us all , holmes showed signs of irresolution .
but i have great hopes in fact , the betting is exactly two to one that if you will come with us to night i shall be able to help you to lay him by the heels .
my nets are closing upon him , even as his are upon sir henry , and with your help he is already almost at my mercy .
and what are they worth ?
he cried .
why about sir henry in particular ?
you 're the man we want to see .
look at this !
so absorbed was he by his bitter grief , that he never looked up until holmes 's hand was on his shoulder .
and now he is dead , and the police will be called in , and i shall be suspected of having had a hand in it .
any silver ?
we have the news at every seaport already , and a reward will be offered before evening .
mind it is , for it 's the last thing of mine that i 'll lose in this den of thieves .
and a non commissioned officer .
capital !
that will do very nicely .
i have had that name among those that knew me best .
his limbs were convulsed and his fingers contorted as though he had died in a very paroxysm of fear .
this article , you say , contains all the public facts ?
yes , sir , but the chance of five pounds is but a poor thing compared to the chance of having your throat cut .
i think that you will agree with me that an interview with mr arthur harry pinner in the temporary offices of the franco midland hardware company , limited , would be a rather interesting experience for both of us .
do you back out ?
holmes shrugged his shoulders .
i heard vaguely that his abilities and the influences which he commanded had won him a good position at the foreign office , and then he passed completely out of my mind until the following letter recalled his existence :
i have told you that mr blessington generally chose this hour of the day for his exercise .
this is a terrible injury .
they cried .
there , i did n't mean that ,
he turned upon his heel , disregarding the trembling hand which the other held out to him , and we set off for king 's pyland .
well , of course , that is possible also .
his carriage is at the door .
i have very little difficulty in finding what i want ,
yes , and a most remarkable bird it proved .
this strange find was all that we could get from the mere , and , although we made every possible search and inquiry yesterday , we know nothing of the fate either of rachel howells or of richard brunton .
there are certainly some points of interest in this case , watson ,
this he buttoned tightly up , in spite of the extreme closeness of the night , and finished his attire by putting on a rabbit skin cap with hanging lappets which covered the ears , so that no part of him was visible save his mobile and peaky face .
you are too late .
what do you propose to do ?
do not go asleep your very life may depend upon it .
tell me ,
all right .
this is a first class , up to date burgling kit , with nickel plated jemmy , diamond tipped glass cutter , adaptable keys , and every modern improvement which the march of civilization demands .
i shall take what you leave .
have you heard from lord mount james ?
what was i to do ?
i protested .
you put me off , do you ?
i thought you londoners were never at fault .
i was sufficiently conversant with holmes 's methods to be able to follow his reasoning , and to see that the nature and state of the various medical instruments in the wicker basket which hung in the lamplight inside the brougham had given him the data for his swift deduction .
if you 'll let one out it 's just what i have come for ,
why do n't you introduce this pattern at scotland yard ?
the founder of that great emporium proved to be a brisk , crisp little person , very dapper and quick , with a clear head and a ready tongue .
just ask him to step up , wiggins .
we shall certainly find some way out of your difficulties .
we found a short valley between rugged tors which led to an open , grassy space flecked over with the white cotton grass .
when i stooped over him i found , to my horror , that he was dead .
so much is fairly clear .
then i shall study the great jones 's methods and listen to his not too delicate sarcasms ' wir sind gewohnt das die menschen verhoehnen was sie nicht verstehen .
here is a quotation from eckermann 's voodooism and the negroid religions :
i am strong enough , mr musgrave , said she .
barrymore it might possibly have been , but we had left him behind us , and i am certain that he could not have followed us .
the wretched creature began to whimper .
it hai n't got no fangs , so i gives it the run o the room , for it keeps the beetles down .
i think of writing another little monograph some of these days on the typewriter and its relation to crime .
everything which had been disconnected before began at once to assume its true place , and i had a shadowy presentiment of the whole sequence of events .
pray take a seat , miss hunter .
do i understand you to say that you have yourself had some remarkable experience since you arrived in london ?
his wife repeated
the two statesmen bowed and walked gravely from the room .
cried the old rascal .
they broke off in the middle .
once well , i can hardly tell about the once to an official detective .
well , it 's nearly one , and we had best get a few hours ' sleep .
there remain the people who will actually surround sir henry baskerville upon the moor .
it is for us to find the connection .
that you would do well to telegraph for an escort , as , if my calculations prove to be correct , you may have a particularly dangerous prisoner to convey to the county jail .
it is a case , watson , which may prove to have something in it , or may prove to have nothing , but which , at least , presents those unusual and outr features which are as dear to you as they are to me .
well , i guess you 'll go far .
he cried .
that is all over ,
there are no other elms ?
what do you make of it , watson ?
have you the dates of those letters ?
the decline of his fortunes , then ?
had you been a lying hindoo , though you had sworn by all the gods in their false temples , your blood would have been upon the knife , and your body in the water .
why else should you hold it from me ?
now from this double point our research must commence , and we will begin it by presuming that what the lad says is absolutely true .
it must have been he who wore those boots and retained the missing gems even though he knew that arthur had discovered him , he might still flatter himself that he was safe , for the lad could not say a word without compromising his own family .
i do not know .
he is to stand at water 's edge and wave his handkerchief to us when they start .
why should you think so ?
you shall rue it to the end of your days .
how did that help you ?
it opens with a latch , and there is nothing to prevent anyone from walking in .
i was going out when he called me back .
holmes rushed to the door and out into the hall .
holmes whispered and i knew from the thrill of his voice that he , the man of iron , was shaken to the soul .
let us see if we can find any other traces of his individuality .
darkly the shadow lay upon the valley of fear .
as i perceive that your boots , although used , are by no means dirty , i cannot doubt that you are at present busy enough to justify the hansom .
i promise you that ,
i 'm after telling your father about it .
yes , there are nearly always some there .
ah , but i was recommended to you .
she was still , however , well in view , and the murky uncertain twilight was setting into a clear starlit night .
they are typewritten ,
if their intentions are evil they might do you a mischief , and we should be powerless to prevent it .
their cumulative effect is certainly considerable , and yet each of them is quite possible in itself .
between ourselves , what little i have is in that box , so you can understand what it means to me when unknown people force themselves into my rooms
mr holmes , where have you lived ?
the clothes are commonplace ,
he cried , in a muffled , husky voice .
i am not over tender of heart , but i call it cruel .
who was she ?
what , the red headed man ?
maybe you think i am just slinging you a yarn .
it was the night before he made his departure for london .
a map is drawn for them by an englishman named jonathan small .
we had entered , and the doctor had preceded us into what was evidently his waiting room .
i suggest that you go on your line and i on mine .
you horrify me .
you must have noticed that fact .
by the way , you have that big umbrella of yours , have you not ?
i tapped at the door as agreed .
i cannot see the importance ,
is there any other little service that i can do you , my friend ?
i do n't know what they were , and was very glad to see their backs .
then it makes it the easier for me to propose that you should come away with me for a week to the continent .
now , when you see that a young lady , otherwise neatly dressed , has come away from home with odd boots , half buttoned , it is no great deduction to say that she came away in a hurry .
now , it was on those stairs that young mr cunningham stood and saw the two men struggling just where we are .
it is time for us to go .
we have never shaken him off .
it seems to me that i have done you full justice in the matter ,
simon very mercifully and thank our stars that we are never likely to find ourselves in the same position .
and underneath ?
at last we were getting something positive , and yet it seemed a long gap between an absconding banker and captain peter carey pinned against the wall with one of his own harpoons .
simon to honour my head by putting it on a level with his own ,
what are we to do , then ? i asked .
this other is a milliner 's account for thirty seven pounds fifteen made out by madame lesurier , of bond street , to william derbyshire .
our proceedings of that first morning did little to advance the investigation .
my dear watson it said , i write these few lines through the courtesy of mr moriarty , who awaits my convenience for the final discussion of those questions which lie between us .
such were the circumstances of the park lane mystery , which were further complicated by entire absence of motive , since , as i have said , young adair was not known to have any enemy , and no attempt had been made to remove the money or valuables in the room .
i knew my man , however , and i clapped a pistol to his head before he could strike .
living in london quite so !
we are investigating this unhappy business , bannister ,
he 's a beauty , is n't he ?
and british broken hills ?
it had been carried out and had been dashed savagely against the garden wall , under which its splintered fragments were discovered .
thus i got at his address .
it is a piece of tarred twine .
holmes walked slowly round and examined each and all of them with the keenest interest .
in the first place , we are very safe in questioning mr williamson 's right to solemnize a marriage .
cried a gruff voice from within .
in an instant i was stunned with a blow and bound hand and foot .
think once more , lady brackenstall .
it was a quarter of an hour before my time , but i thought that would make no difference .
luke ' s , and really , but for the happy chance of your being in town , i should have been at a loss what to do .
is that so ?
allow me to introduce you to him .
here he is , wig , whiskers , eyebrows , and all .
what i did not foresee is that we should find a woman , and no ordinary woman , watson .
the only point in the case which deserved mention was the curious analytical reasoning from effects to causes by which i succeeded in unraveling it .
the cabman had described a somewhat shorter man , but such an impression might easily have been erroneous .
dear me !
it is not so impossible , however , that a man should possess all knowledge which is likely to be useful to him in his work , and this i have endeavoured in my case to do .
about eleven .
i have no doubt that i am very stupid , but i must confess that i am unable to follow you .
i think i 'll take one of these pistols upstairs with me in case we have an alarm .
you 've no heart yourself , and you try to take the heart out of others .
i glanced my eyes over it , and then settled down to my task of copying .
you need not be uneasy .
she whispered , as i drew her to my side .
a dapper little man , with a quick , alert manner and a waxed moustache , had just descended from a high dog cart .
but i hope that to lose one of your boots is not part of the ordinary routine of life over here .
and yet he would always wind up by muttering that no sister of his should ever have accepted such a situation .
is the security sufficient ?
only two days ago i was a happy and prosperous man , without a care in the world .
godfrey is an orphan , and lord mount james is his nearest relative his uncle , i believe .
cried grant munro .
they went by the last train .
twelve struck , and one and two and three , and still we sat waiting silently for whatever might befall .
witness : it is really impossible for me to tell you .
i fear that unless you can give me some more definite information than this it would be impossible to get him to move .
my wants were few and simple , so that in less than the time stated i was in a cab with my valise , rattling away to paddington station .
when eleven struck , the measured beat of the great church clock seemed to sound the dirge of our hopes .
yes , sir : there is no one that we cannot account for .
it is not for me , my dear watson , to stand in the way of the official police force .
ai n't there no water , nor nothing to eat ?
again i saw that grim face look over the cliff , and i knew that it was the precursor of another stone .
peering through the gloom , i saw the vague outline of a man , a shade blacker than the blackness of the open door .
ah , that settles it .
god knows i have !
yes , brother morris .
may all our difficulties vanish as easily !
it would brighten my declining years to see a german cruiser navigating the solent according to the mine field plans which i have furnished .
should you be fortunate enough to solve this problem ,
his grace is by no means convinced that the police have failed .
why , the house seems to be as full as a rabbit warren !
he made a sweeping bow to the three of us and walked quietly off in the custody of the detective .
well , mr holmes , i am very much obliged to you and to your friend for coming down to help me .
and , finally , there was this very important piece of evidence which was found clasped in the dead man 's right hand .
i 'm sure , watson , a week in the country will be invaluable to you ,
through the glass paneling i caught a glimpse of a large and luxurious room , in which a considerable number of men were sitting about and reading papers , each in his own little nook .
you must come before him .
mawson only gives me two hundred , but mawson is safe .
that is unnecessary ,
if she is not quite convalescent you will find that a hint that we were about to telegraph to a young electrician in the midlands would probably complete the cure .
there were no signs , mr holmes .
it was dreary work standing in the gate way hour after hour in such weather .
what were they doing , and why did they not instantly give the alarm ?
but he was too wily for that .
then , clutching it in his hand , he vanished through a door way .
sherlock holmes sat silent for some few minutes , with his brows knitted and his eyes fixed upon the fire .
the sound of carriage wheels caused him to rise and glance out of the window .
or is it by the law courts and the judge ?
so it 's not quite as simple as you thought .
it would be a poor expert who could not give the date of a document within a decade or so .
you amused me by supposing that i was contemplating the possibility of someone having in broad daylight , under the eyes of all these opposite rooms , forced himself through it .
holmes took the bag , and , descending into the hollow , he pushed the matting into a more central position .
this infernal problem is consuming me .
i have in my pocket a manuscript ,
the addition of a p and a d completed a message which showed me that the rascal was proceeding from persuasion to threats , and my knowledge of the crooks of chicago prepared me to find that he might very rapidly put his words into action .
holmes sat down on a boulder and rested his chin in his hands .
look at this a sheet from a note book , with ' for god 's sake come at once p .
sun in your eyes and his face in the shadow ?
, then if by any chance this paper should be still undestroyed and should fall into your hands , i conjure you , by all you hold sacred , by the memory of your dear mother , and by the love which had been between us , to hurl it into the fire and to never give one thought to it again .
where is he , then ?
but he 'll live now .
he 's a man who is not to be beat .
well , wilson , any news ?
that 's all right !
since he cannot communicate with her direct , he has recourse to the agony column of a paper .
no , i do n't say that ,
the travel stained adventurers gazed after her in astonishment , and even the unemotional indians , journeying in with their pelties , relaxed their accustomed stoicism as they marvelled at the beauty of the pale faced maiden .
he went out again , therefore , through the window , and having obtained the help of a policeman and of a medical man , he returned .
your sister sarah lives , i think you said , at new street , wallington ?
she stood at the gate , gazing after him until he vanished from her sight .
nonsense !
your instructions will be done .
ah , indeed !
let him think that selden 's death was as stapleton would have us believe .
in one of these wings the windows were broken and blocked with wooden boards , while the roof was partly caved in , a picture of ruin .
apply dr watson , b , baker street , between eight and nine this evening .
you understand that , mr detective !
well , hopkins , here we are at charing cross , and i congratulate you on having brought your case to a successful conclusion .
two years ago , having served my time , and having also come into a fair sum of money through my poor father 's death , i determined to start in business for myself and took professional chambers in victoria street .
i wish nothing better ,
he laid down his pen and looked curiously at him .
we were reformers revolutionists nihilists , you understand .
what then ?
i fancy that , even as it is , jonathan small would give a good deal not to have employed him .
no single man should know what he had .
of course he thought he had taken refuge in the fort , and applied for admission there himself next day , but could find no trace of achmet .
it would take considerable technical knowledge to copy the plans in an effective way .
the roadway was blocked with the immense stream of commerce flowing in a double tide inward and outward , while the footpaths were black with the hurrying swarm of pedestrians .
there , outlined as black as an ebony statue on that shining background , i saw the figure of a man upon the tor .
in that case the waiter must have placed it there while we were lunching .
that 's a promise , ' said he , rising from his chair .
telegraphic inquiries had been already made which showed that marx knew nothing of his customer save that he was a good payer .
three smaller windows on the right hand side filled the apartment with cold winter sunshine .
second , l .
adventure vii .
you do not propose to invest your money in this manner .
the copy was there , and the original was gone .
pinchin lane was a row of shabby two storied brick houses in the lower quarter of lambeth .
he was a fine figure of a man , tall , lithe , and agile , with a springy step and a pleasant , open face .
i have the honour to wish you a very good morning .
did you ever hear of dawson and neligan ?
when we have finished at the police station i think that something nutritious at simpson 's would not be out of place .
why , dash it all !
he wore gaiters , and carried a heavy stick with a knob to it .
if he can clear the matter up , well and good .
now , mr holmes , what would you advise me to do with him ?
he had to seal his mouth on the subject , however , for to express an unorthodox opinion was a dangerous matter in those days in the land of the saints .
there are no limits to the possibilities of monomania ,
your best way is to make a clean breast of the facts , ' i answered .
on the other , the plans of the bruce partington submarine are presumably already on the continent .
you must not say a word to any one about it , and i shall see you again soon .
let that suffice until half past nine , when we start upon the notable adventure of the empty house .
but your client
you can n't pick or choose .
well , i have been here a month now .
there he is again !
but it is really uncommonly hard on me .
if the letter should fall into stapleton 's hands her own life would not be safe .
no one can know about the matter , for here we are cut off from all men .
then what do you suggest that we do ?
not such a bad show for the hard drinking , hard riding country squire .
and yet you cannot guard yourself too closely .
there might well be a recess behind the books .
if i leave the society , i know well that it means murder to me , and god knows what to my wife and children .
holmes took the glasses in his hand .
either is possible .
the treasure is hidden in ' at this instant a horrible change came over his expression his eyes stared wildly , his jaw dropped , and he yelled , in a voice which i can never forget , ' keep him out !
he laid an envelope upon the table , and we all bent over it .
the valet was out for the evening , visiting a friend at hammersmith .
our visitor readjusted his glasses and began :
he slapped it down upon the table in front of him .
who is this person ?
but when i tell you that there is some account of the taking of the place by a parliamentary colonel in , of the concealment of charles for several days in the course of the civil war , and finally of a visit there by the second george , you will admit that there are various associations of interest connected with this ancient house .
a minute later we heard steps upon the stairs , and an elderly red faced man with grizzled side whiskers was ushered in .
i threw myself , screaming , against the door , and dragged with my nails at the lock .
my only answer was my own voice reverberating in a rolling echo from the cliffs around me .
it is most important , all the same .
you have carte blanche .
my dear inspector , you surpass yourself !
as he spoke he drew the dog whip swiftly from the dead man 's lap , and throwing the noose round the reptile 's neck he drew it from its horrid perch and , carrying it at arm 's length , threw it into the iron safe , which he closed upon it .
with this intention , i called a cab and drove out to my house at streatham , carrying the jewel with me .
indeed , i cannot think why the whole bed of the ocean is not one solid mass of oysters , so prolific the creatures seem .
let me pay you one in return when i say that if i were assured of the former eventuality i would , in the interests of the public , cheerfully accept the latter .
yes he lies upstairs .
adventure iv .
i was told off for the door , same as you were last night .
this one covered , as a matter of fact , the t joint which gives off the pipe which supplies the kitchen underneath .
was i wrong ?
great britain holds the scales .
rumour reported that drebber had managed to convert a large part of his property into money , and that he had departed a wealthy man , while his companion , stangerson , was comparatively poor .
you know my methods in such cases , watson .
this is my secretary and manager ,
was your baggage aboard the ship ?
oh , i do n't mind telling a story against myself .
but why this gun , of all weapons ?
two hours passed slowly away , and then , suddenly , just at the stroke of eleven , a single bright light shone out right in front of us .
he may have met him there , may even have helped him to break in the door , and then they may have fallen out between themselves .
strange !
they still had hopes that the trainer had for some reason taken out the horse for early exercise , but on ascending the knoll near the house , from which all the neighboring moors were visible , they not only could see no signs of the missing favorite , but they perceived something which warned them that they were in the presence of a tragedy .
no , sir he looks after himself entirely .
the light is a signal to him that food is ready for him , and his light out yonder is to show the spot to which to bring it .
after all , men have been as bad as this and have recovered .
returned the other .
you observe that the scratch on that table is slight at one side , but deepens in the direction of the bedroom door .
who 's killed , then ?
henderson he called himself , but i traced him back , paris and rome and madrid to barcelona , where his ship came in in ' .
we must get on the main scent again , i suppose .
i should think that the enclosure must be acres and acres .
dear mr holmes he says :
my friend took the lady 's ungloved hand , and examined it with as close an attention and as little sentiment as a scientist would show to a specimen .
simon .
i feared as much ,
on the monday morning holmes had telegraphed to the london police , and in the evening we found a reply waiting for us at our hotel .
why so ?
the board schools .
the conclusions of every department are passed to him , and he is the central exchange , the clearinghouse , which makes out the balance .
he returned to dartmoor and awaited the arrival of the baronet .
cried gregson , in a relieved voice
and yet it 's our own necks that may be at stake .
what sundial ?
the features are given to man as the means by which he shall express his emotions , and yours are faithful servants .
hilda !
it is impossible !
how can we have when i saw him with my own eyes with the coronet in his hands .
i then went downstairs , and i ascertained , in your presence , watson , without your perceiving the drift of my remarks , that professor coram 's consumption of food had increased as one would expect when he is supplying a second person .
the glint of the gold in each case caught my eye , you see .
a husband 's cruelty to his wife .
how long ago was it ?
peter carey was master of the sea unicorn , and i was spare harpooner .
now the first letter can only be a , which is a most useful discovery , since it occurs no fewer than three times in this short sentence , and the h is also apparent in the second word .
i 'm not going to begin at the beginning .
i am always the last man out .
to night jack to night !
we are anxious to know how you managed it .
the man sat huddled up in his chair , with his head sunk upon his breast , like one who is utterly crushed .
i will tell you it just as it happened , sir ,
you know mr holmes and his relations with the police better than anyone else can .
for seven dollars a week paid in advance he was to have board and lodging .
no sir i have not .
mortimer , the gardener , who wheels the bath chair , is an army pensioner an old crimean man of excellent character .
oh , indeed !
you were first a coiner and then a murderer , and you came to these parts because you thought you 'd be welcome .
on the very day , however , before i left , an incident occurred which proved in the sequel to be of importance .
they are in the bowling alley ,
why did you not put your name to the note ?
so furious was he that he was hardly articulate , and when he did speak it was in a much broader and more western dialect than any which we had heard from him in the morning .
no one less than that would have a chance .
the cedars ?
they could not hope to sell such a horse .
wrote holmes to the wife .
amazement and fear were stamped upon his expressive features .
then the murderer , or whoever it was , first took off this ring you call the nugget ring , then the wedding ring , and afterwards put the nugget ring back again .
i am sure , sir , it was only my practical joke .
there was no need for him to ask me to wait up for him , for i felt that sleep was impossible until i heard the result of his adventure .
i owe you a thousand apologies .
it was already dark when we reached the old university city .
he retired some eleven years ago , and came to live at pondicherry lodge in upper norwood .
you would n't kill this man ?
i made away across the garden , and as i went i heard the window shut behind me .
of course as to his personal appearance he must be middle aged , and must be sunburned after serving his time in such an oven as the andamans .
i think the whole case fits together uncommonly well .
oh , that 's all right ,
through the gloom one could dimly catch a glimpse of bodies lying in strange fantastic poses , bowed shoulders , bent knees , heads thrown back , and chins pointing upward , with here and there a dark , lack lustre eye turned upon the newcomer .
he disappeared upon the d of december , , nearly ten years ago .
and the rucastles go out to night ?
i thought of the convict out upon the bleak , cold , shelterless moor .
one hardly likes to throw suspicion where there are no proofs .
your memoirs will draw to an end , watson , upon the day that i crown my career by the capture or extinction of the most dangerous and capable criminal in europe .
what , then , is the connection between godfrey staunton and the bearded man ?
thank you .
he shall .
you may have observed that i twice strolled over to the window while dr mortimer was reading his legend .
i thank you ,
nothing else is of any consequence but i think that he has behaved most kindly and honorably throughout .
i have no desire to make mysteries , but it is impossible at the moment of action to enter into long and complex explanations .
added white mason .
well , well , inspector ,
i turned resolutely to the door .
let me have the straight tip and you will n't be a loser .
my sister and i , you will recollect , were twins , and you know how subtle are the links which bind two souls which are so closely allied .
he never came out .
i only doubt '
it is a little difficult to know what to do , watson ,
so i could do nothing .
where are they all , maggie ?
he was passing through the door , when he turned , with flushed face and flashing eyes .
poor devil !
there will probably be some small unpleasantness .
a tall , thin man with coloured glasses , whom i strongly suspected of being a plain clothes detective , was pointing out some theory of his own , while the others crowded round to listen to what he said .
at my summons , instead of the man of violence whom we expected , a very old and wrinkled woman hobbled into the apartment .
indeed !
but the one great stumbling block lay in my want of capital .
well done !
i answer that there was a great deal which was unreasoning and fanatical in the hatred which he bore my heir .
sherlock holmes 's face showed that he was thoroughly taken aback by this new development .
he had hardly shut the door behind him when holmes rose to put on his overcoat .
heaven knows , they were complicated enough before .
he shook hands with us and took his leave .
it was all done in an instant , and there was the gentleman thanking me on the one side and the lady on the other , while the clergyman beamed on me in front .
all was silent within .
i was not surprised , therefore , on monday night when a mr latimer , a very fashionably dressed young man , came up to my rooms and asked me to accompany him in a cab which was waiting at the door .
it looks like a flight .
mycroft holmes struggled out of his overcoat and subsided into an armchair .
for both these reasons i thought that i was justified in telling rather less than i knew , since no practical good could result from it , but with you there is no reason why i should not be perfectly frank .
no , watson , i never was in it .
cried the stranger , darting through the bushes .
a shock of very bright red hair grew low over his eyes and forehead .
now , watson , i think that we cannot employ our time better than by calling upon your acquaintance , mrs laura lyons .
that 's the worst blow yet .
that is a possible solution in fact , as matters stand , it is the most probable one .
and here at my elbow is another portrait , taken at liverpool , of your younger sister , in the company of a man who appears to be a steward by his uniform .
that west , of all men , should have done such a thing !
cried the saloon keeper , not quite certain whether to humour this audacious visitor or to stand upon his dignity .
when i first determined to make this communication to you ,
i imagine that it must be sir henry baskerville .
where was the shadow ?
tis a proper place for a lad of mettle .
god help me !
he bowed in assent .
heidegger , the german master , was missing .
i heard him come up the stair after midnight .
i never guessed that i should meet you .
i trust very much to your judgment and discretion , and i know that you will advise me for the best .
she sobbed .
bless you , sir , i know where all my old friends are ,
just give me down my index of biographies from the shelf .
again there was the struggle upon mcmurdo 's face , and again it set like granite .
in the train the agent murdered him , took the more essential papers , and threw his body from the carriage .
i think , watson , we cannot do better .
he cried .
i remembered hearing of his case , for it was one which had made an immense sensation throughout the country some time before my own arrest .
i spent months in trying to trace them , and at last , after many doubtings and difficulties , i discovered that the original seller had been captain peter carey , the owner of this hut .
i should like , however , to understand a little more clearly what it is that you wish me to do .
and yet and yet what less could i do ?
however innocent he might be , he could not be such an absolute imbecile as not to see that the circumstances were very black against him .
i fear , watson , that she will be past charlington before we can possibly meet her .
how about poison ?
but we have to prove all this , and we are not in a position to do it .
that means that while they are , as we have seen , very anxious to watch him , they are equally anxious that he should not see them .
he would not tear it down for fear of giving the alarm by ringing the bell .
my private note paper .
he bore no grudge against bartholomew sholto , and would have preferred if he could have been simply bound and gagged .
though how you come to know it , heaven only knows .
what is it , then ?
i was touched by this filial anxiety .
i 'd like to hear .
the treasure is lost ,
but down beneath me in a cleft of the hills there was a circle of the old stone huts , and in the middle of them there was one which retained sufficient roof to act as a screen against the weather .
we had hardly reached the third pillar , which was our rendezvous , before a small , dark , brisk man in the dress of a coachman accosted us .
ah , my boy , said he ,
he was a singular man , fierce and quick tempered , very foul mouthed when he was angry , and of a most retiring disposition .
my fiddle would be the better for new strings ,
besides those secret powers which it was universally believed that he exercised in so pitiless a fashion , he was a high public official , a municipal councillor , and a commissioner of roads , elected to the office through the votes of the ruffians who in turn expected to receive favours at his hands .
as he spoke , the steps which had been coming nearer sounded loudly on the passage , and a very stout , portly man in a gray suit strode heavily into the room .
read it aloud .
the alibi was complete .
maybe you gentlemen think that i am just making out a case for myself , but i give you my word that when i thought of that , though i felt the point of the knife at my throat , i opened my mouth with the intention of giving a scream , if it was my last one , which might alarm the main guard .
nothing but energy can save you .
what signs are there of a hound ?
he was , i take it , the most perfect reasoning and observing machine that the world has seen , but as a lover he would have placed himself in a false position .
in ten minutes we had all found our quarters .
let me make it up to you .
it was all important .
and it is
that 's what i 'm asking you .
perhaps he desires the publication of the letter .
i hope that i may be back in a few hours .
this is the end of it .
i was then much surprised and interested on glancing down to observe that , though the boots which she was wearing were not unlike each other , they were really odd ones the one having a slightly decorated toe cap , and the other a plain one .
what could he have wanted there ?
i am afraid , watson , that i shall have to go ,
as long as she was on the scene he could not take any action without a horrible exposure of the woman whom he loved .
we approached the case , you remember , with an absolutely blank mind , which is always an advantage .
up to the time of the catastrophe he was the first favorite for the wessex cup , the betting being three to one on him .
but , first of all , i must keep you in touch with some of the other factors in the situation .
yes , i think i can .
the house seems deserted .
but now your thoughts went back to beecher , and you looked hard across as if you were studying the character in his features .
i talked as if dr watson were a resident instead of being merely a visitor ,
i like it well ,
here you are , you see ,
and shall land you , dr watson , with the treasure box .
he had left a trace of his presence , however , for there on the door was the very same arrangement of dancing men which had already twice appeared , and which i have copied on that paper .
anything else ?
the chairs had been moved back against the walls , but all else was as it had been the night before .
yes , indeed , you shall not sleep here after to night !
the building was of grey , lichen blotched stone , with a high central portion and two curving wings , like the claws of a crab , thrown out on each side .
holmes smiled as he turned up an entry in his note book .
you understand the rest , then ?
i told holmes how the matter stood , my heart bubbling over with thankfulness and joy .
i will n't conceal from you , mr holmes , that we think in the c .
good bye , and i am very sorry that you should have been troubled over a case with which , as you say , you have nothing whatever to do .
sherlock holmes staggered back , white with chagrin and surprise .
is from the somomy stock , and holds as brilliant a record as his famous ancestor .
there is mortimer 's , the tobacconist , the little newspaper shop , the coburg branch of the city and suburban bank , the vegetarian restaurant , and mcfarlane 's carriage building depot .
she whispered to me to come round to the big front window , and i found it open before me , so as to let me into the dining room .
i started when i saw the name , for it was that of none other than well , perhaps even to you i had better say no more than that it was a name which is a household word all over the earth one of the highest , noblest , most exalted names in england .
it is eight o clock now ,
there is strong reason now to believe that he has got right away , which is a considerable relief to the lonely householders of this district .
holmes put the slip of paper carefully away into his pocket book .
my brother and i naturally associated this peculiar incident with the fear which haunted my father during his life but it is still a complete mystery to us .
far from hushing the thing up , i have brought a gentleman down from london to inquire more deeply into it .
the man 's face peeled off under the sponge like the bark from a tree .
could you swear to it ?
most preposterous !
i had almost made up my mind to sleep on the moor , when i saw the light of your lantern .
i closed the curtain , feeling that my last impression was in keeping with the rest .
did n't i tell you !
i never heard of it ,
cecil barker , much excited , had rushed up to the door and pealed furiously upon the bell .
is n't it gorgeous !
the blow was a fatal one .
but have you ,
i would sooner have a savage wild animal loose about the place .
mr mccarthy was the only man alive who had known dad in the old days in victoria .
six months !
that is very important ,
of course , with a warrant we could demand to see the counterfoils , but we have not reached that stage yet .
no his needs were very simple and his salary ample .
cried holmes .
i met him on the cars when i went down the line on wednesday a hard case if ever there was one .
did he say so ?
your news of this morning , however , may open his lips .
i 'll trouble you to walk out of my house , sir ,
however that may be , the young lady was very decidedly carried away , and , having quite made up her mind that her stepfather was in france , the suspicion of treachery never for an instant entered her mind .
there is a realm in which the most acute and most experienced of detectives is helpless .
in that case ,
i would n't have three such months again if they let me loose in the treasury at washington for it .
it was catherine cusack who told me of it ,
certainly , mr holmes .
i got a message from the head office that a gent at this address had been inquiring for no .
excellent , watson , excellent !
the bottle stood near them , two thirds full , and beside it lay a long , deeply stained cork .
and so heavy !
were printed in gold lettering between the brightly lit windows .
he knew that i would do what i said that his own fate was involved in mine .
now for the box wrapper .
i do not know how to express my gratitude .
by the way ,
are you , indeed , now ?
i 've thought of that , jack .
i 'd prefer to walk , for this affair has flurried me rather .
absolutely .
there he is , all safe and sound .
that represents the last time that the colonel needed to have his machine overhauled , i fancy .
there seemed to be no alternative but to catch him red handed , and to do so we had to use sir henry , alone and apparently unprotected , as a bait .
do not think very harshly of me , laddie .
i know that he is right .
i shall be happy to give you any help i can .
i only wished to ask a question ,
such was the third person who was one of the family when the catastrophe occurred .
these are the company 's offices into which he has gone .
you will find me beside the flagstaff upon miller hill .
my work must not be hindered .
as to yourself , mr tregennis , i take it you were divided in some way from your family , since they lived together and you had rooms apart ?
and who told you ?
i may be on the trail in this matter , or i may be following a will o ' the wisp , but i shall soon know which it is .
he cried , exultantly .
feeble .
then i heard him talking to himself and muttering , and every time the bell rang out he came on the stairhead , with ' what is that , mrs hudson ?
if not , why should you come to consult me ?
a struggle passed for a moment over mcmurdo 's face but it ended by setting like granite .
i had never heard the name before and could not imagine what he wanted with me but , of course , i asked her to show him up .
that 's right !
it was evident that to his intensely aristocratic nature this discussion of his intimate family affairs with a stranger was most abhorrent , and that he feared lest every fresh question would throw a fiercer light into the discreetly shadowed corners of his ducal history .
mr phelps , sir !
put it there ,
most people , if you describe a train of events to them , will tell you what the result would be .
the case of frankland v .
i was sure that you would see it in that light ,
if you listen to them under protest , as it were , you are very likely to get what you want .
my companion ordered him to wait , and had his hand upon the knocker , when the door opened and a grave young gentleman in black , with a very shiny hat , appeared on the step .
i took the paper from him and read the short notice , which was headed mysterious business at upper norwood .
all that makes a fair night 's work .
again i advanced , but he repulsed me with a look of furious anger .
i am all right again .
the baronet and i were both upon our feet .
i shall never let it drop until the gems are found never , mary !
very large .
your interview with the lady has cleared the situation very much .
i have a curious constitution .
he brought it down by the north devon line and walked a great distance over the moor so as to get it home without exciting any remarks .
now all pretense of grief had passed away from her .
have you heard of the death of the chief ?
all was going well when mccarthy laid his grip upon me .
it is just possible that to morrow may find him in a more communicative mood .
he yelled .
he had just completed his examination when the hall lights flew up , the door opened , and the owner of the house , a jovial , rotund figure in shirt and trousers , presented himself .
holmes considered for a moment .
my dear mycroft , i should be delighted .
in front of him , in the full glare of the electric light , there stood a tall , slim , dark woman , a veil over her face , a mantle drawn round her chin .
i could merely see the outline , but his height told me that it was barrymore .
but since it is safe in your hands i see no object in continuing this business .
i examined them with care , and there was no doubt that they were trouser buttons .
well , it may be seven or eight .
ah , my unfortunate nephew !
now i am clear again , though i dare not think of it too much for fear of a relapse .
and now , if we are too late for dinner , i think that we are both ready for our suppers .
oh , i am weary of questions !
it had been a close , rainy day in october .
i have been at some small expense over this matter , which i shall expect the bank to refund , but beyond that i am amply repaid by having had an experience which is in many ways unique , and by hearing the very remarkable narrative of the red headed league .
with a confused brain , but with a heart into which some warmth of hope was returning , i accompanied my friend in a walk round the garden .
strong pressure was brought upon me to look into the matter .
now , in the single word i have already got the two e 's coming second and fourth in a word of five letters .
the man was so intent upon what he was doing that he never heard our steps as we stole across the grass plot .
from its summit there fluttered a little wisp of pink , showing up hard and bright against the grey rocks behind .
holmes took a cab at the station and ordered the man to drive to the house of dr leslie armstrong .
the grey pavement had been cleaned and scraped , but was still dangerously slippery , so that there were fewer passengers than usual .
i cannot allow that there is any humiliation .
coarse writing ,
and by god !
you will find him at b corporation street , where the temporary offices of the company are situated .
his voice rang through the house .
he seems to be riding for a fall .
i 'm just off a two yearer in an eight knot tramp , short handed at that , and i wants a rest .
the press would be furious if it did .
there is something positively inhuman in you at times .
what do you make of it ?
the headlines are : ' mysterious affair at lower norwood .
there is no possible getting out of it , mr windibank .
you understand , mr holder , that i am giving you a strong proof of the confidence which i have in you , founded upon all that i have heard of you .
there have been two murders , a vitriol throwing , a suicide , and several robberies brought about for the sake of this forty grain weight of crystallised charcoal .
i have really some scruples as to taking you to night .
we jumped at the offer , for we were already sick of these bloodthirsty doings , and we saw that there would be worse before it was done .
thank you !
the old gentleman corrected the mistake , however , and handed the paper back to holmes .
the coroner : i understand that the cry of ' cooee ' was a common signal between you and your father ?
we had hoped that he might have given us some indications which would have helped us to clear the matter up .
i kept a bold face before lestrade , but , upon my soul , i believe that for once the fellow is on the right track and we are on the wrong .
joseph will come , too .
knowing my methods as you do , you were , of course , conscious of the somewhat clumsy water pot expedient by which i obtained a clearer impress of his foot than might otherwise have been possible .
i had seen enough of the contrary nature of the old sinner to understand that any strong sign of interest would be the surest way to stop his confidences .
but i cannot understand them , and i am not easy in my mind about them .
smart fellow , that ,
the second :
there are lonely houses scattered over the moor , and he is a fellow who would stick at nothing .
you others come with me .
it was a quarter past nine when i started from home and made my way across the park , and so through oxford street to baker street .
they saw the mine engineer , a great bearded scotchman named menzies , come out of the engine house and blow his whistle for the cages to be lowered .
and then you will return in front of him .
he is very rare and seldom found in the late autumn .
there are no rebel dogs on this side of the river .
there were such steps , however .
it would be as well if you could make it convenient not to return before evening .
all remonstrance is useless , holmes , i am going this instant to fetch him .
is it a promise ?
most certainly but in the presence of a witness .
your red headed idea was very new and effective .
exactly .
the first thing that i did was to wire to mr forbes , who had the case in hand .
the man walked into the trap and was captured last night after a struggle in which constable downing was badly bitten by the savage .
i should like an accurate description of him and any letters of his which you can spare .
that he could play pieces , and difficult pieces , i knew well , because at my request he has played me some of mendelssohn 's lieder , and other favourites .
the road in front of us grew bleaker and wilder over huge russet and olive slopes , sprinkled with giant boulders .
have you heard him speak of anything which occurred in america and might bring some danger upon him ?
a splintered boat and a number of crates and fragments of spars rising and falling on the waves showed us where the vessel had foundered but there was no sign of life , and we had turned away in despair when we heard a cry for help , and saw at some distance a piece of wreckage with a man lying stretched across it .
it seems to me that i have been making a fool of myself from the beginning .
what is that ?
the man was a danger to the community , an unmitigated scoundrel for whom there was neither pity nor excuse .
come into the billiard room and have a quiet cigar .
appreciation of nature found no place among his many gifts , and his only change was when he turned his mind from the evil doer of the town to track down his brother of the country .
the boy was fully dressed when he fled .
just look up the trains in bradshaw ,
we can do nothing until seven o'clock .
when the head of it had reached the base of the mountains , the rear was not yet visible on the horizon .
well , everywhere .
we will join you in a few minutes in the dining room .
he cried .
what can we do ?
of course they might soon get over the difficulty .
his head ached with the effect of the drink , and his arm , where he had been branded , was hot and swollen .
good lord , man !
you are right , watson ,
you are under the charge of mr athelney jones , of scotland yard .
i have no doubt at all that a family mannerism can be traced in these two specimens of writing .
did you see it ?
not at all .
nothing would induce me to help the police in any way .
morland , court of queen 's bench .
his mormon experiences had taught him that that was the highest authority to which he could refer .
he remarks that , while the individual man is an insoluble puzzle , in the aggregate he becomes a mathematical certainty .
it was at his suggestion that we have both come to you .
mycroft has his rails and he runs on them .
yes , there is a strip of grass about six feet broad on either side .
he was a handsome , dashing young man of about the same age and build as mcmurdo himself .
but he is a dirty scoundrel .
ye see , when i got up to the door it was so still and so lonesome , that i thought i 'd be none the worse for some one with me .
to sherlock holmes she is always the woman .
you might say so if all were as stanch as you , councillor .
they could not agree as to price .
half an hour later , the porter tells me that a rough looking man with a beard called with a note for godfrey .
what wages ?
nothing that would help a thief .
you have given orders that arthur should be liberated , have you not , dad ?
watson , your country trip has been a distinct success .
ah , i can only give you a very general answer to that for the moment .
do n't you think that is an admirable sentiment ?
i saw where boots had faced round , where the snow was cut up as though there had been a struggle , and , finally , where a few drops of blood had fallen , to show me that i was not mistaken .
when a man writes on a wall , his instinct leads him to write about the level of his own eyes .
i know that she will do it .
it is here in the corner .
i think that you will acknowledge that the problem was already one of interest , but my observations soon made me realize that it was in truth much more extraordinary than would at first sight appear .
he was doing something in the cellar something which took many hours a day for months on end .
i drew blank at fifteen , but at the sixteenth jacobson 's i learned that the aurora had been handed over to them two days ago by a wooden legged man , with some trivial directions as to her rudder .
however , the man is fortunately rather deaf , and he was entirely preoccupied in that which he was doing .
mr trelawney hope dropped his head on his chest and groaned aloud .
open the window , then !
macdonald turned over the letter which holmes had handed him .
i 'm brother scanlan , lodge , vermissa valley .
i have made the whole thing as clear as day .
and that ring went with him to london ?
b , baker street , of which he had spoken at our meeting .
do you imagine that this anaemic youth was capable of so frightful an assault ?
the case is not entirely devoid of interest .
see this smear where it has trickled down the wall !
they pulled up soon at the railway station .
do not fear , sahib ,
exactly ,
you will n't find the order more flourishing anywhere in the states than right here in vermissa valley .
however , it was too late to alter the matter now , so i locked it up in my private safe and turned once more to my work .
unfortunately our good chancellor is a little heavy handed in these matters , and he transmitted a remark which showed that he was aware of what had been said .
halfway down , lestrade stopped and tapped at a door , which was opened by a small servant girl .
with due discretion the incident itself may , however , be described , since it serves to illustrate some of those qualities for which my friend was remarkable .
the bosses of the one are the bosses of the other .
well , i never thought to see her again , but last voyage i was promoted , and the new boat was not yet launched , so i had to wait for a couple of months with my people at sydenham .
yes , sir i believe that he foresaw some danger , or else he would not have talked so .
was dressed in , ' etc .
i have considered that possibility too , and there is a search party who will work up as far as richmond .
i am an early riser and generally take a walk before breakfast .
finally he led the way into the drawing room , with the remark that the business was now out of our hands , and that we must while away the time as best we might until we could see what was in store for us .
oh , hush , mr mcmurdo , do n't speak so !
you speak when you are spoken to , and by the lord you 'd have to wait a long time if it was me !
in glancing over the somewhat incoherent series of memoirs with which i have endeavored to illustrate a few of the mental peculiarities of my friend mr sherlock holmes , i have been struck by the difficulty which i have experienced in picking out examples which shall in every way answer my purpose .
let us thrust this creature back into its den , and we can then remove miss stoner to some place of shelter and let the county police know what has happened .
if this man could afford to buy so expensive a hat three years ago , and has had no hat since , then he has assuredly gone down in the world .
there 's his impression deep enough .
i suppose that it does not always run loose upon the moor .
will you not telegraph again ?
an iron box , ' he answered , ' which contains one or two little family matters which are of no value to others , but which i should be sorry to lose .
the mirror was so placed that , seated in the dark , we could very plainly see the door opposite .
you probably heard of my poor father 's death , ' said he ' he was carried off about two years ago .
then i ran from room to room .
i come to a part of my story now in which i should wish to be particularly so .
tut tut !
my dear doctor ,
looking back , they could see the solitary watcher leaning upon his gun , and knew that they had passed the outlying post of the chosen people , and that freedom lay before them .
i can see that it is all in vain .
i searched this room carefully before lunch .
from that i gather that he is a left handed man .
i may never be tried ,
what do you think , mr mac ?
it was only by trying begging as an amateur that i could get the facts upon which to base my articles .
good night , mister sherlock holmes .
evidently what puzzled the dog at the corner of knight 's place was that there were two different trails running in opposite directions .
i accepted this as a hypothesis , and noted that e was represented by xxx .
i have identified the dead man .
you have it , sir , just as it happened .
again the avenger had been foiled , and again his concentrated hatred urged him to continue the pursuit .
the socialists had many branches in america , and the deceased had , no doubt , infringed their unwritten laws , and been tracked down by them .
in the first place , your grace , i am bound to tell you that you have placed yourself in a most serious position in the eyes of the law .
and yet i was loath to believe that this was the case , and the presence of the word hudson seemed to show that the subject of the message was as i had guessed , and that it was from beddoes rather than the sailor .
up to the small hours of the morning i could hear the clinking of his test tubes which told me that he was still engaged in his malodorous experiment .
these theories take no account of the telegram .
you may or may not have just cause for arresting me ,
on the table lay two glasses , and empty brandy bottle , and the remains of a meal .
deeply interested yes .
if it had it would certainly have been public by now .
he continued , looking round at the company ,
then he rose , lit his pipe , and settled himself down into his chair .
jonathan i shall leave to you , but if the other turns nasty i shall shoot him dead .
that all united should fail to enlighten the competent enquirer in any case is almost inconceivable .
good morning , madam ,
some little distance down threadneedle street , upon the left hand side , there is , as you may have remarked , a small angle in the wall .
have you her photograph ?
governess and children hardly go out at all , except into the garden .
it was a long hour before we reached it , and at first we feared that we had come too late to save any one .
no , mr holmes , it 's in better hands than mine .
cried hatherley , in intense excitement .
did you ever write to sir charles asking him to meet you ?
singularity is almost invariably a clue .
what do you make of these bones ?
what do you make of all this ?
this , then , might be the door .
there is a list here of his possessions .
he swept his long arm towards the huge mottled expanse of green splotched bog which stretched away until it merged into the russet slopes of the moor .
it certainly did cross my mind that it might be a little dull less for you , perhaps , than for your sister .
he has been very much upset by the tragic news .
which proves , of course , that the book was dropped after the crime was committed .
partly it came no doubt from his own masterful nature , which loved to dominate and surprise those who were around him .
that was the idea which occurred to me the instant i saw the drawn muscles of the face .
finding no one there he promptly rang the bell , and at the instant that he did so his eyes caught the paper upon the table .
one of the largest stalls bore the name of breckinridge upon it , and the proprietor a horsey looking man , with a sharp face and trim side whiskers was helping a boy to put up the shutters .
yet i persuaded myself that it must have been some nervous contraction which i had surprised , for he turned to me an instant later with genuine concern upon his features .
it was a little past six when i arrived , so i went first to have my wound dressed , and then the doctor was kind enough to bring me along here .
a drive of half a mile brought us to the myrtles a large , dark house standing back from the road in its own grounds .
plural ?
he had gone with the rest .
put on your hat , watson , and we will stroll down together to westminster .
as evening drew in , the storm grew higher and louder , and the wind cried and sobbed like a child in the chimney .
leaning forward in the cab , he listened intently to macdonald 's short sketch of the problem which awaited us in sussex .
between and around these scattered points extends the desolate , lifeless moor .
a minute later , however , when hunter rushed out with the hound he was gone , and though he ran all round the buildings he failed to find any trace of him .
the younger brother of the late sir james walter , the head of the submarine department .
it was a gloomy , high ceilinged room at the back of the house , with a straw litter in one corner , which served apparently as a bed for the cook .
must have full report , stuff awaits you when goods delivered .
gennaro was in my father 's employment , and i came to love him , as any woman must .
nothing had been touched or taken , but there were the footprints to prove that the intrusion was an undoubted fact .
mr soames was somewhat overwhelmed by this flood of information .
and now , mr wilson , off you go at scratch and tell us all about yourself , your household , and the effect which this advertisement had upon your fortunes .
very well .
you do .
halloa !
do not jest at that which is sacred ,
surely there is another alternative , mr holmes .
your majesty has indeed committed an indiscretion .
in the kitchen a kettle was singing on the fire , and a large black cat lay coiled up in the basket but there was no sign of the woman whom i had seen before .
oh , father , father , what shall we do ?
the door of the study was open , and a candle was burning upon the table .
you have implicit faith in holmes ?
the only thing about his face that i could clearly see was his dark beard .
at least , i thought , when he has finished the document and the cigar he will go to his room , but before he had reached the end of either , there came a remarkable development , which turned our thoughts into quite another channel .
well , well , that 's fine .
the little man stood glancing from one to the other of us with half frightened , half hopeful eyes , as one who is not sure whether he is on the verge of a windfall or of a catastrophe .
i could not sleep that night .
i do n't think that i need intrude upon your time and patience any more .
do you mean to say that you read my train of thoughts from my features ?
i confess that i was disappointed .
that very night he started off all alone to prepare for the attempt .
a broken tip of lead was lying there also .
what are you doing here ?
for seven hours i plied my trade , and when i returned home in the evening i found to my surprise that i had received no less than s .
she was as good as she was beautiful and as intelligent as she was good .
why not ?
my first feeling , as i have just said , was one of pity and horror .
perhaps this is he .
a dozen of the prisoners had hatched it before they came aboard , prendergast was the leader , and his money was the motive power .
i must finish ,
and i 'd have done so before now if i could ha ' got out from the cellar .
the business end of a buckshot cartridge !
pray sit down and tell me all about it , dr watson ,
to my enormous relief , he had improved greatly in the interval .
who , then , is most likely to have taken his life ?
he read it aloud :
i was brought up in the freer , less conventional atmosphere of south australia , and this english life , with its proprieties and its primness , is not congenial to me .
she had written in a hurry and dipped her pen too deep .
it is simplicity itself ,
i fear there is no alternative , watson .
why , holmes , it is a child 's drawing ,
it was certain from the first , however , that they would eventually be detected , as the cook , from the evidence of one or two tradespeople who have caught a glimpse of him through the window , was a man of most remarkable appearance being a huge and hideous mulatto , with yellowish features of a pronounced negroid type .
gone to the nearest public house .
on my remarking that i was constantly in the habit of doing the same thing you expressed incredulity .
it was on account of your special knowledge that mr holmes desired to see you .
i have often thought of taking a look round there , but the truth is that i was never much of a credit to the family , and i doubt if they would be so very glad to see me .
i 'd rather spare two from the pack , and have godfrey for my three quarter line .
everything depends upon our speed .
how quiet and sweet and wholesome the garden looked in the moonlight , and it could not be more than thirty feet down .
no , it does not .
a large and comfortable double bedded room had been placed at our disposal , and i was quickly between the sheets , for i was weary after my night of adventure .
to think that i had all that evidence in my hand and never knew it !
during the last year or two , things have gone against him secret speculation , i think and he finds himself in a bad way .
the isolated house in which chester wilcox lived was about five miles off in an adjacent valley .
very much surprised was he when i made at him with the rope 's end and cursed him for a little blood thirsty imp .
we know now that the people who are so interested in our friend have not settled down in his own hotel .
holmes 's voice sank as he answered :
they were afterwards seen together upon the platform .
what shall we give for it ?
good evening , mr james windibank ,
get every pound of steam you can .
the gunner turned damned nasty at the last , and i had to square him with an extra hundred dollars or it would have been nitsky for you and me .
what do you think of that ?
as it was , i rang the bell and roused the house .
that is sir henry 's nature .
or a spectral hound , black , silent , and monstrous ?
sherlock holmes was a man who seldom took exercise for exercise 's sake .
let him lie we can n't do him any good , but we may save her from the worst fate that can befall a woman .
but i 'll go home with you .
then i think we had better hear their story at once .
gennaro had not yet returned when he came .
and you , baldwin , if you do n't take your hand off your pistol , you 'll cheat the hangman yet .
the facts are these .
he returns to the house , and you want to find out who he is .
but i was advised to see you .
if he is strapped to that , we will have the truth out of him .
of course he has a salary as well .
an old established one ?
we 're at close grips at last ,
watson , you are a british jury , and i never met a man who was more eminently fitted to represent one .
we all stood still and listened .
here is half a sovereign for your trouble .
in the silence he heard a gentle scratching sound low , but very distinct in the quiet of the night .
the iron and coal valleys of the vermissa district were no resorts for the leisured or the cultured .
and why ?
now that they are gone i can tell you how i love you .
i tell you , and i give you my word for it , that from that moment i was not my own master , and it is all like a dim dream when i look back on it .
it 's impossible ,
i was curious , in the first place , to see how far the family ear had been reproduced in her .
and then ?
but how ?
there were ,
little did i think how soon the words of holmes would be realized , or how strange and sinister would be that new development which opened up an entirely fresh line of investigation .
from the instant that i grasped it my whole mind was turned to the one thought of getting back my husband 's paper .
the shape of some monstrous villainy , half seen , half guessed , loomed through the darkness which had girt me so long .
inspector barton , who had charge of the case , made a very careful examination of the premises , but without finding anything which threw any light upon the matter .
i was day dreaming .
there is the situation , mr holmes , in a nutshell , and if you can help us to clear it up you will have done a great work .
now that gorgiano is dead we fear nothing ,
on the whole , then , it was best that i should risk the climb .
yet the fact remains that the reader , who was a fine , robust old man , was knocked clean down by it as if it had been the butt end of a pistol .
they stared at him with eager interest but he said nothing .
ah , that 's lucky ,
exactly , my dear watson he might have proved an alibi .
here it is that this creature takes his daily seat , cross legged with his tiny stock of matches on his lap , and as he is a piteous spectacle a small rain of charity descends into the greasy leather cap which lies upon the pavement beside him .
you are the prisoner .
no , no , it was more than that , jack .
in that case , of course , acton 's and cunningham 's are just the places he would go for , since they are far the largest about here .
the late cabinet minister ?
it is certain that no robbery has been committed .
three people did .
the professor was buried in his work and existed for nothing else .
there are some would say it was war ,
he stood for an instant , and then he crept forward , crouching , menacing , into the room .
then i reread it very carefully .
he continued as the old lady vanished ,
i must go back to day .
right again .
his eyes sparkled , and he sent up a great blue triumphant cloud from his cigarette .
we have enough on hand to meet any obligations .
come , watson !
that is certainly a possible point of view .
please burn the cipher message , which can now be of no use to you .
i hope i do n't intrude , but we hear that mr holmes of baker street is here .
there was no wound upon the dead man 's person , but the agitated expression upon his face assured me that he had foreseen his fate before it came upon him .
i interpret all languages or nearly all but as i am a greek by birth and with a grecian name , it is with that particular tongue that i am principally associated .
it seemed interminable .
he picked up the volume from the table and read out the whole title , practical handbook of bee culture , with some observations upon the segregation of the queen .
i walked to the window , and looked out on the deserted street .
some distance off , across a paddock , lay a long gray tiled out building .
he took my husband into his employment , made him head of a department , and showed his good will towards him in every way .
the tip was guarded by a disk of cork which we found beside his body ,
on the day that they have all been driven out the power of this society will have been broken .
pray step into my little sanctum .
his face might have been chiselled out of marble , so hard and set was its expression , while its eyes glowed with a baleful light .
simon has not already arrived .
did you observe the colour ?
there is , on the face of it , something unnatural about this strange and sudden friendship between the young spaniard and scott eccles .
might he be suffering from some huge self deception ?
now i will give you the evidence of susan tarlton , who is the only person who can say anything positive about the matter .
dr mortimer blinked through his glasses in mild astonishment .
it was a tremendously virile and yet sinister face which was turned towards us .
that is baskerville hall in the middle .
come , come ,
one more question , mr holmes .
i already knew that the papers were probably in the room , but i had no desire to rip up all the planking and skirting in search of them .
in the case of pondicherry , seven weeks elapsed between the threat and its fulfilment , in dundee it was only some three or four days .
where is he , then ?
he denied it , however , with the utmost earnestness , and i am convinced that he was speaking the truth .
i had no idea that you had found my occasional retreat , still less that you were inside it , until i was within twenty paces of the door .
it was all love on my side , and all good comradeship and friendship on hers .
a short walk brought us to it , a bleak moorland house , once the farm of some grazier in the old prosperous days , but now put into repair and turned into a modern dwelling .
the facts appear to admit of only one explanation .
the next he had thrown himself on his knees beside the table , and burying his face in his hands , he had burst into a storm of passionate sobbing .
a young , pushing man with plenty of snap about him .
that is well .
yes it struck me as being a little out of the common .
that is the case as it appears to the police , and improbable as it is , all other explanations are more improbable still .
and you will n't tell me what you want it for ?
it is a very urgent message , thrice repeated to make it more so .
by the way , sherlock ,
but you 're an american citizen ?
then why did you leave ?
aldgate is a junction , and there was a network of points .
take their pistols , marvin !
they come , they go , they come again of course that was for the cloak .
the money cannot be found .
he has given me an extra pair of eyes upon a very active pair of feet , and both have been invaluable .
as mcmurdo had said , the house in which he lived was a lonely one and very well suited for such a crime as they had planned .
they are less poisonous than one would expect .
sherlock holmes and jones sat with their hands upon their knees , deeply interested in the story , but with the same disgust written upon their faces .
did altamont name no hour ?
you are yourself aware that you will soon have to answer for your deed at a higher court than the assizes .
why do you hesitate ?
as we approached it i heard the sharp rattling of a chain , and the sound as of a large animal moving about .
it is my belief that she died of pure fear and nervous shock , though what it was that frightened her i cannot imagine .
meanwhile , you change nothing nothing at all .
would it not be better to be frank ?
he 's off again ,
he must have left his behind him .
well , i tried one or two leads , but could get at nothing which would help our hypothesis , and several points which would make against it .
we prospered , we traveled , we came back as rich colonials to england , and we bought country estates .
holmes 's knowledge of the byways of london was extraordinary , and on this occasion he passed rapidly and with an assured step through a network of mews and stables , the very existence of which i had never known .
it 's a bad compliment to me that you can n't be contented with my society for so short a time .
as a means of tracing him , if he wished to inquire about him from any third person .
nothing was moved before i got there , and strict orders were given that no one should walk upon the paths leading to the house .
they have , for example , their insular conventions which simply must be observed .
what you say is perfectly logical , mr holmes .
here we are !
d'you know what that means ?
on it was scribbled in pencil : l reward .
at times she spoke so low that i could hardly catch the words .
the man was unknown there .
then , horrified by what he had done , he fled out of the hut , dropping the notebook which he had brought with him in order to question peter carey about these different securities .
my friend , who loved above all things precision and concentration of thought , resented anything which distracted his attention from the matter in hand .
if these things were numbered and registered .
no , no , we must find other ways to fight him .
i 'm proud to see you here , councillor ,
your protection , sahib , ' he panted , ' your protection for the unhappy merchant achmet .
by whose permission ?
you sum up the difficulties of the situation succinctly and well ,
yes , mr holmes , i teach music .
they preferred to stand together and jabber all night in their queer sikh lingo .
at eleven there was a fight at the ' white hart ' but bar that all was quiet enough on the beat .
yes , here it is :
i cannot live without brain work .
holmes then threw the handkerchief to a distance , fastened a stout cord to the mongrel 's collar , and led him to the foot of the water barrel .
in the bathroom ,
as to the special cause of my leaving , it is not merely the strained situation with mr carruthers , but it is the reappearance of that odious man , mr woodley .
they have always been together , and according to his account he has been a very lonely man with only her as a companion , so that the thought of losing her was really terrible to him .
and yet i believe that my eyes are as good as yours .
it is nothing very formidable ,
i was pained at the mistake , for i knew how keenly holmes would feel any slip of the kind .
it was into this room that mrs barclay went upon her return .
he had left the hotel after breakfast yesterday morning on his bicycle , and no more was heard of him until our inquiries .
why , the man in the brown coat our florid friend with the square toes .
at last , at last i have found you with her !
god help those who wander into the great mire now , for even the firm uplands are becoming a morass .
her dark , clear cut face was handsome , even in death , but there still lingered upon it something of that convulsion of horror which had been her last human emotion .
if he were still in aldershot it should not be a very difficult matter .
it will be remembered that mr garcia , of wisteria lodge , was found dead on oxshott common , his body showing signs of extreme violence , and that on the same night his servant and his cook fled , which appeared to show their participation in the crime .
while i have been fooled in this way , what has this other hall pycroft been doing at mawson 's ?
i came to find a friend .
i must tell you , first of all , the interesting circumstances connected with the previous consultations which mr hilton cubitt has had with me in baker street .
if the former , she had probably transferred the photograph to his keeping .
let us get a firm grip of the very little which we do know , so that when fresh facts arise we may be ready to fit them into their places .
i have finished with the carpet .
the door swung heavily back , and a short , deep chested man stood in the opening , with the yellow light of the lantern shining upon his protruded face and twinkling distrustful eyes .
eminent bodymaster and brethren ,
un sot trouve toujours un plus sot qui l ' admire .
the carriage which had brought me was already out of sight .
it will help you in following my investigation .
i rushed towards it and pulled at the handle , but it was quite secure , and did not give in the least to my kicks and shoves .
lestrade has got him all right ,
i suppose we ought to call the police in now ,
there is always a look of fear upon her face a look as if she were waiting and expecting .
a touch of red in nose and cheeks , with a slight tremor of his extended hand , recalled holmes ' surmise as to his habits .
had sir charles reached this ?
i must have the consent of my three comrades .
i flopped down into that chair , and nothing would budge me until mr soames he went for you .
if you walk on a mile or so to clapham junction , you ll just be in time for the last to victoria .
they had evidently paid him well , for he was very flush of money , chucking shillings about to the men .
i have the advantage of knowing your habits , my dear watson ,
had anyone else come in , the family would certainly have risen from the table .
an elderly man , i presume ?
it was furred outside by a thick layer of dust , and damp and worms had eaten through the wood , so that a crop of livid fungi was growing on the inside of it .
i started a drygoods store on market square , and i prospered well .
not yet .
caulfield gardens was one of those lines of flat faced pillared , and porticoed houses which are so prominent a product of the middle victorian epoch in the west end of london .
it has not been a satisfactory case .
well , was there ?
i do n't profess to know the meaning of it ,
i might have given you my address , but i feared that you might disregard my request and bring unpleasant people with you .
there was only one thing in it , but i am sure that you would never guess what it was .
sometimes the rattle of the stones told of a paved causeway , and at others our smooth , silent course suggested asphalt but , save by this variation in sound , there was nothing at all which could in the remotest way help me to form a guess as to where we were .
vat about milman and van shorst , and the nicholson family , and old mr hyam , and little billy james , and the others ?
not a word came to us either from wiggins or from the other agencies .
if i do not hear by wednesday , their winding gear may get out of order .
i am alexander holder , of the banking firm of holder stevenson , of threadneedle street .
i am afraid that whatever theory we state has very grave objections to it ,
the inscription upon the paper was brief , but to the point :
quite so .
but i do n't believe in bankers .
now and again , however , it chanced that even when he erred , the truth was still discovered .
is that not enough ?
ah , that is the point .
he rummaged in his coat pocket , and , drawing out a piece of discoloured , blue tinted paper , he laid it out upon the table .
his eyes had the brightness of fever , there was a hectic flush upon either cheek , and dark crusts clung to his lips the thin hands upon the coverlet twitched incessantly , his voice was croaking and spasmodic .
by its light i saw that the black ceiling was coming down upon me , slowly , jerkily , but , as none knew better than myself , with a force which must within a minute grind me to a shapeless pulp .
the game is up .
in his very first night the new recruit had made himself one of the most popular of the brethren , marked already for advancement and high office .
they 've got her , that hell hound woodley and the blackguard parson .
thank you .
you will tell him exactly how you have left me ,
in life or in death , i am ever your loving , mary .
what did he say ?
you 're very kind , mr holmes .
i am very angry indeed , and i have been shamefully used .
or had some sudden blow from her hand dashed the support away and sent the slab crashing down into its place ?
i waited but he never returned .
we are four able bodied men in this household , so that we could take good care of ourselves , but i confess that i have had uneasy moments when i have thought of the stapletons .
i will do so , and i must be quick , for i have promised mr rucastle to be back before three .
perhaps then he pays a visit every night to that particular window ,
at every rise holmes looked eagerly round him , but the shadows were thick upon the moor , and nothing moved upon its dreary face .
i was sitting in my hut when he and captain morstan came stumbling along on the way to their quarters .
there were curs to do the smaller work but some day he would slip this creature upon its prey .
now i met her appealing gaze with an unresponsive eye .
there are several singular points about the case .
as to you , friend watson , i owe you every atonement for having allowed your natural curiosity to remain so long unsatisfied .
no there was a great fire at atlanta very shortly after his death , and all her papers were destroyed .
it was pitch dark and very oppressive under his hood .
i had one or two questions which i wished to ask you , lord holdhurst .
he hardly speaks a word of english , and we can get nothing out of him but grunts .
but there has been some official investigation ?
it is a blank half sheet of paper , without even a water mark upon it .
it was a debt of honor , so called , which i had to pay , and i used money which was not my own to do it , in the certainty that i could replace it before there could be any possibility of its being missed .
if you think that it is in the best interests of your client that these letters should be placed in the hands of the earl , then you would indeed be foolish to pay so large a sum of money to regain them .
you are deceiving us , small ,
it was ten o'clock .
you then glanced up at the wall , and of course your meaning was obvious .
you have all the cleverness which makes a successful man .
i rushed upstairs , explained the matter shortly to my wife , and in five minutes was inside a hansom , driving with my new acquaintance to baker street .
i have brought you a fortune .
every precaution was taken to guard the favorite .
he took up a small saucer of milk which stood on the top of it .
in all the broad landscape those were the only moving figures , the graceful girl sitting very straight upon her machine , and the man behind her bending low over his handle bar with a curiously furtive suggestion in every movement .
which i really think , watson , that it would be worth your while to glance over .
here he is , sending out messages to an accomplice there are several of his gang in london .
i found him safe and well , but horrified beyond expression by the dreadful deed he had witnessed .
i nearly fell into the error of supposing that you were typewriting .
there was a church clock down at woking which struck the quarters , and i thought more than once that it had stopped .
my geese !
well , i think we may all congratulate each other .
proves that this young man saw a formidable danger which approached him , and from which someone else could protect him .
how could i have heard of him when you know that i am a stranger in these parts ?
dumb bell there 's only one .
yet , with all this , you made me reveal what you wanted to know .
it is my mind and soul that he has tortured and defiled .
i heard a cry also .
she responded beautifully .
there was one man on her a landsman .
but there was no sign of them .
indeed , he fell into a chair in a sort of faint , and we nearly had him on our hands as well .
i guess somebody else made the country in these parts .
in her hurry to withdraw the key , she makes this scratch upon the door .
i told you yesterday , and i repeat to day , that it was not .
so this was the explanation of the unlocked door and of the nocturnal vigil of milverton .
not at all .
on the contrary , my dear sir ,
no good , my dear watson .
i am afraid for his health ?
there 's a train from charing cross to chatham at six in the morning , and we should be at yoxley old place between eight and nine .
i think , watson , that if we drive to baker street we shall just be in time for breakfast .
i have them ,
the bodymaster 's scowl relaxed as he listened to the humble words .
the story is not over yet , i fear ,
you are off ?
what 's the matter with me , anyhow ?
in my haste i thrust the key into my pocket , and dropped my stick while i was chasing teddy , who had run up the curtain .
shouted mr sherman .
our business was soon done .
the detective mounted the stairs , and our lamp gleamed upon his shining waterproof .
he continued , more brightly , after a pause .
it left him , however , vaguely uneasy , and mrs straker , waking at one in the morning , found that he was dressing .
he dipped it into the test tube and it flushed at once into a dull , dirty crimson .
who are these two men mr blessington , and why do they wish to molest you ?
it was with his barmaid wife that he had spent the last three days in bristol , and his father did not know where he was .
you did not ask for particulars on any point which appeared to you to be crucial ?
this is intolerable .
she looked back at him and slowed her pace .
it was at this point that i asked gregson whether he had enquired in his telegram to cleveland as to any particular point in mr drebber 's former career .
he had gone out before breakfast , and i had sat down to mine when he strode into the room , his hat upon his head and a huge barbed headed spear tucked like an umbrella under his arm .
the features were set , however , in a horrible smile , a fixed and unnatural grin , which in that still and moonlit room was more jarring to the nerves than any scowl or contortion .
i owe you both my thanks and an apology .
i examine the data , as an expert , and pronounce a specialist 's opinion .
the lady sprang to her feet , with the colour all dashed in an instant from her beautiful face .
i walked round it and examined it closely from every point of view , but without noting anything else of interest .
at the same time , my promise is of course given .
in a very few minutes , sir you will find hot water in your rooms my wife and i will be happy , sir henry , to stay with you until you have made your fresh arrangements , but you will understand that under the new conditions this house will require a considerable staff .
if it came off when garcia returned , any possible suspicion would be warded off by the englishman 's evidence , and all would be well .
holmes observed .
a few days later came the meeting .
here he found baldwin and three other criminals of the night before , all arrested that afternoon and waiting their trial next morning .
well , it seems to me that it is just possible that the arrival of this poor fellow william was not before , but after , the entrance of the burglar into the house .
then , of course , his complete mourning shows that he has lost some one very dear .
if he came from outside on so wet a night , and yet left no trace of damp upon the linoleum , which was examined within a few minutes of his passing , then it is exceeding probable that he came in a cab .
who was he , then , and what was his object in deserting miss sutherland ?
and there is no law to stop you .
a quarter of an hour , not less .
he was a young but trusted member of the detective force , who had distinguished himself in several cases which had been intrusted to him .
on getting into the room i at once looked for the means by which the poison had entered the system .
i burst out laughing , out of sympathy with her merriment but grant munro stood staring , with his hand clutching his throat .
i am afraid , however , that it can be of little help to you in solving this mystery .
the walk in the centre is about eight feet across .
that d might be an a , and that l an e .
there remain three persons who have been grievously stricken by some conscious or unconscious human agency .
i think that i must turn to you watson , for something more solid .
yes , the setting is a worthy one .
i took an exact copy , and here it is .
he came back at night weary and unsuccessful .
he thought i should brood over it if i knew all , and so he was silent .
but if you consider the european situation you will have no difficulty in perceiving the motive .
the man looked nervously round him as he spoke , peering into the shadows as if he feared to see some lurking danger .
my wife is very anxious that you should come , for she has been much attracted by my description of you .
in the insistent tone of one who awakens a sleeper .
neither do i ,
the man is a striking looking fellow , very well equipped to steal the heart of a country girl , so that this theory seemed to have something to support it .
one great yellow lantern in our bows threw a long , flickering funnel of light in front of us .
i am a light sleeper , and so is my wife .
having gathered these facts , watson , i smoked several pipes over them , trying to separate those which were crucial from others which were merely incidental .
i passed along the tradesmen 's path , but found it all trampled down and indistinguishable .
in a few hours the examination would commence , and he was still in the dilemma between making the facts public and allowing the culprit to compete for the valuable scholarship .
and a curve , too .
then on the top of these more or less vague impressions there had come the definite and distinct warning of miss stapleton , delivered with such intense earnestness that i could not doubt that some grave and deep reason lay behind it .
and so shall we be , my boy .
you could no longer bear the idea of this ruffian owning her ?
i am sorry to intrude , but you heard how earnestly holmes insisted that i should not leave you , and especially that you should not go alone upon the moor .
when mr soames returned and called for you , you were very much disturbed ?
where did you get that dog cart ?
where is my wife ?
quite so .
who could come to night ?
then i took a drop myself .
there is the point which we still have to decide .
england may leave france to her fate .
you followed him next year , did you not ?
the duke continued ,
i guess they were all drowned .
the card he had meant to lay upon my body was lying beside his own .
he added in an exultant voice as he unfolded the epistle .
it was four years ago that i had it made , and what do you think i chose for the word and figures ?
the vocabulary of bradshaw is nervous and terse , but limited .
i rose , opened my door , and peeped out .
these two people are presumably dead , or we should have heard their story before now .
save only the overcoat , which is full of suggestive touches .
i am staying there while i conduct the inquiry .
the object is to avoid a public scandal .
i really would n't miss your case for the world .
the bodymaster orders that he shall be trussed , blinded , and entered ,
no article of value was taken , as it is probable that the criminals were men of good position , whose sole object was to prevent social exposure .
when we arrived at the residence of the european secretary it was for lady hilda trelawney hope that sherlock holmes inquired .
he led me back into the banqueting hall , his bedroom candle in his hand , and he held it up against the time stained portrait on the wall .
but you can imagine how surprised i was , mr holmes , when , on my return on the monday , i saw the same man on the same stretch of road .
i recommend , sir , that you take a cab , call off your spaniel who is scratching at my front door , and proceed to waterloo to meet sir henry baskerville .
this would seem to indicate that the book is one which he thought i would have no difficulty in finding for myself .
to whom would the thief take it ?
i do not believe in such nonsense .
what have you to confess now ?
he continued , after some turning over of pages ,
impossible !
what is at the root of it all ?
in this instance , none at all .
thank you very much , i fear that i underrated the difficulty of the task .
i 've a secret here ,
when our unknown had followed baskerville home we should have had the opportunity of playing his own game upon himself and seeing where he made for .
it was nearly six o'clock before we found ourselves in the pretty surrey village of esher , with inspector baynes as our companion .
the path of our investigation is at present obscure , but i shall be very much surprised if before evening we have not cleared it up , or made a considerable advance along it .
the night , however , was extremely dark and stormy , so that , in spite of the help of several passers by , it was quite impossible to effect a rescue .
if you have not , you are not fitted for the rearing of a child who may some day play a considerable part in the history of the country .
it may be so , or it may not , mr holmes ,
it was part of their fiendish system to punish those whom they feared or hated by injuring not only their own persons but those whom they loved , and it was the knowledge of this which hung as a terror over my poor gennaro 's head and drove him nearly crazy with apprehension .
that 's the house all alone at the iron dike crossroad , same as you see here on the map without another within earshot .
from the police point of view he will have kidnapped the boy for the purpose of ransom .
henderson has two children girls of eleven and thirteen .
problems may be solved in the study which have baffled all those who have sought a solution by the aid of their senses .
was it only recently that he made such remarks ?
since then every year upon the same date there has always appeared a similar box , containing a similar pearl , without any clue as to the sender .
he had made his name as the most lewd and bloodthirsty tyrant that had ever governed any country with a pretence to civilization .
from the point of view of the criminal expert ,
of course , she would not admit even the possibility of his guilt .
he is not at king 's pyland .
i inquired of him whether he had ever heard of colonel lysander stark .
very smartly dressed , sir quite the gentleman .
i have it ,
a sheath knife , still in its sheath .
the passage , as well as the room , was full of smoke and the smell of powder .
i would suggest carrying this poor fellow to my house , but it would give my sister such a fright that i do not feel justified in doing it .
we all gathered round him and gazed at it .
why does fate play such tricks with poor , helpless worms ?
how , then , did you deduce the telegram ?
terrible !
did he recover consciousness ?
but when will that be ?
wherever stirring adventures were to be had , jefferson hope had been there in search of them .
no , i am not .
, once british minister to persia .
if , after doing so , one simply knocks out all the central inferences and presents one 's audience with the starting point and the conclusion , one may produce a startling , though possibly a meretricious , effect .
stepping out into the dark , i nearly fell over a dead man , who was lying there .
you see that ,
i shall enumerate them to you , for nothing clears up a case so much as stating it to another person , and i can hardly expect your co operation if i do not show you the position from which we start .
this was the first point gained .
as to being disloyal , if it was any man but you he would not use the word to me twice .
what do you think of that ?
i do n't know , mr holmes .
take my advice and be frank with me .
we tied toby to the hall table , and reascended the stairs .
at the age of twenty one he wrote a treatise upon the binomial theorem , which has had a european vogue .
cecil barker pointed to a box of brass headed nails upon the mantelpiece .
of course , legally , we are putting ourselves hopelessly in the wrong but i think that it is worth it .
and ' what will you take for the geese ?
the detective 's face had grown longer and longer during holmes 's speech .
on which side were the marks on the grass ?
jones looked gravely at her and shook his head .
at the single table sat the man whom we had seen in the street , with his evening paper spread out in front of him , and as he looked up at us it seemed to me that i had never looked upon a face which bore such marks of grief , and of something beyond grief of a horror such as comes to few men in a lifetime .
those are the main facts of the case as they came out before the coroner and the police court .
there was a small room there , lined with barrels .
what can it mean ?
the keen air of the mountains and the balsamic odour of the pine trees took the place of nurse and mother to the young girl .
it must be confessed that the natural explanation offers almost as many difficulties as the other .
so then i promised to wait for him to the end of time and pledged myself not to marry anyone else while he lived .
i think they are the kitchen windows .
if you call it crime ,
you 'll wish you had never set foot in this house before i am through with you !
is it not extraordinary that a burglar and a burglar who had had some previous experience should deliberately break into a house at a time when he could see from the lights that two of the family were still afoot ?
we can talk it over more comfortably at home ,
i could not trust myself to speak longer with the man .
i stared .
prove it !
well , i 've a conscience , sir , and when i chanced to see you go into this house , as i came hobbling after you , i thought to myself , i 'll just step in and see that kind gentleman , and tell him that if i was a bit gruff in my manner there was not any harm meant , and that i am much obliged to him for picking up my books .
his life history was written in his heavy features and pompous manner .
again , i argued that it had been forced upon him from the hatred and fear expressed upon his face .
holmes shook his head impatiently .
do n't speak !
james 's hall this afternoon ,
cried the other
our client looked down with a rueful face at his own unconventional appearance .
you see that we have been as good as our word .
well , well !
he was dressed in a heavy gray suit with a reefer jacket , and he wore a short yellow overcoat and a soft cap .
but sometimes a letter may be legible even when burned .
it is inconceivable , for example , that this ivy and this lawn would have yielded nothing to an expert observer .
one piece , about three feet in length , had a very marked indentation at one end , while several were flattened at the sides as if they had been compressed by some considerable weight .
not a moment to lose !
from the police i learned that miss morrison , who you remember went out that evening with mrs barclay , denied having any knowledge of what it was which had caused the ill humor in which her companion had returned .
now we have to ask ourselves at what hour the murder actually did occur .
she went out to america when she was young , and lived in the town of atlanta , where she married this hebron , who was a lawyer with a good practice .
now , then , what 's the last entry ?
there is the treasure .
oh , no , it was a knife .
besides , there were no marks of any violence upon her .
he appears to know every detail of every horror perpetrated in the century .
i spent a morning in the british museum reading up on that and other points .
we 'll see about that ,
sometimes it seemed impossible that he should fail to hear our approach .
there were no signs of a struggle , nor had the victim any weapon with which he might have wounded an antagonist .
i never should , mr holmes .
how did he know ?
but come in .
it was but a glance of a face in a window , but that one glance told him that cleveland in ohio possessed the men whom he was in pursuit of .
clair , the clouds lighten , though i should not venture to say that the danger is over .
it 's as well , or he 'd have had the drop on me with that buckshot gun of his before ever i could draw on him .
but i see the glint of a light in that little window beside the door .
could n't i earn ten times as much in my own bedroom with four hours ' work ?
may i see your father if i call to morrow ?
congratulate me !
i have seen his death certificate .
but they were not miners .
dost akbar has promised this night to lead him to a side postern of the fort , and has chosen this one for his purpose .
you had better stay here , watson .
but we found the knife some feet away from the body , so that seems impossible .
the instant that the professor had disappeared , it struck me what a really extraordinarily lucky chance fate had placed in my way .
holmes stooped to the water jug , moistened his sponge , and then rubbed it twice vigorously across and down the prisoner 's face .
what 's this ?
how often she went i do n't know , but i followed her one day , and as i broke in at the door fairbairn got away over the back garden wall , like the cowardly skunk that he was .
they are useful , these traitors , but i grudge them their blood money .
the case had been considerably complicated through the incident of the escaped convict and the relations between him and the barrymores .
a shocking crime has been committed , and i think i have now laid bare every detail of it .
when there , a fresh altercation arose between them , in the course of which drebber received a blow from the stick , in the pit of the stomach , perhaps , which killed him without leaving any mark .
the open window , the blood on the sill , the queer card , the marks of boots in the corner , the gun !
this is , indeed , a most serious matter .
this aroused my curiosity , so when i went out for a walk in the grounds with my charge , i strolled round to the side from which i could see the windows of this part of the house .
very interesting , but just a little unconvincing .
s . carved upon it , and that is all which we shall ever know of the fate of the lone star .
holmes raised the lady .
have you never
see here , man ,
oh , mr thaddeus , sir , i am so glad you have come !
there was nothing .
let her choose between them .
hayes brought arthur to his public house , the fighting cock , where he was confined in an upper room , under the care of mrs hayes , who is a kindly woman , but entirely under the control of her brutal husband .
her face had neither regularity of feature nor beauty of complexion , but her expression was sweet and amiable , and her large blue eyes were singularly spiritual and sympathetic .
henri fournaye , occupying a small villa in the rue austerlitz , was reported to the authorities by her servants as being insane .
i must get it for myself .
they all sat like wax figures , some with their glasses arrested halfway to their lips .
as clearly as i see you .
it was claimed that same evening , and returned but in the interval i had taken a moulding of it , and had a duplicate constructed .
i drove along slowly , weighing in my own mind what it was best to do .
mr james mccarthy , the only son of the deceased , was then called and gave evidence as follows : ' i had been away from home for three days at bristol , and had only just returned upon the morning of last monday , the rd .
i 'll join you in a walk , with pleasure ,
a sudden thought struck him , however , and he ran through the hall door and round to the lawn upon which the long french windows open .
there are two lines of old yew hedge , twelve feet high and impenetrable .
ay , but it 's just that same that you have to prove ,
the world is wide .
knowing his vindictive nature , i was perfectly certain that he would come to look upon his handiwork .
you are aware , perhaps , that a close intimacy exists between this lady and the man stapleton ?
then i shall want two stanch men , in case of resistance .
i had my enemies within my power .
there was no complete maker 's name but the printed letters p e n were on the fluting between the barrels , and the rest of the name had been cut off by the saw .
and they were posted to day at gravesend .
every minute she gets stronger ,
lestrade and i sat silent for a moment , and then , with a spontaneous impulse , we both broke at clapping , as at the well wrought crisis of a play .
should i be too early to see your master , mr silas brown , if i were to call at five o'clock to morrow morning ?
there is nothing there , no sign that anyone has landed but why should he leave any sign ?
who was the man ?
remember that i have breathed thirty miles of surrey air this morning .
i followed him some distance , but he subsided into an ale house : so i went back to the yard , and , happening to pick up one of my boys on the way , i stationed him as a sentry over the launch .
there is one very singular thing , however : how came selden , in the darkness , to know that the hound was on his trail ?
my visit was specially made to the good mr ames , with whom i exchanged some amiabilities , which culminated in his allowing me , without reference to anyone else , to sit alone for a time in the study .
and with an apology he followed the inspector outside .
because you once enabled my employer , mrs cecil forrester , to unravel a little domestic complication .
ames and mr barker had then returned to the study , where they had found everything exactly as the police had seen it .
i was the last person who saw him !
you are making fools of us , mr holmes !
a feeling of repulsion , and of something akin to fear had begun to rise within me at the strange antics of this fleshless man .
if he wished to injure it why could he not do it there ?
the message was absurd and trivial .
over the low , heavily lintelled door , in the centre of this old part , is chiseled the date , , but experts are agreed that the beams and stone work are really much older than this .
he ran up and down , sometimes losing , sometimes finding the track until we were well within the edge of the wood and under the shadow of a great beech , the largest tree in the neighbourhood .
yes , we should have a full day today ,
i knew that you went out little , and that your circle of friends was a very limited one .
there was only the one pistol found in the room , two barrels of which had been emptied .
the blow was struck from immediately behind , and yet was upon the left side .
because i fell into talk with him .
they had waited for their man as he drove home at nightfall , taking their station at the top of a steep hill , where his horse must be at a walk .
how long is this to last ?
how else could it be known so quickly that it was the northumberland hotel which he had chosen ?
what did you go into the pool for ?
well , it was the beginning of ' when my father came to live at horsham , and all went as well as possible with us until the january of ' .
well , now , let us see where this rat has been lurking .
i had no idea that you would be so affected .
and your key never left your possession ?
the family was at one time among the richest in england , and the estates extended over the borders into berkshire in the north , and hampshire in the west .
she raised her veil as she spoke , and we could see that she was indeed in a pitiable state of agitation , her face all drawn and grey , with restless frightened eyes , like those of some hunted animal .
who killed colonel james barclay , then ?
nobody takes you seriously .
perhaps you would kindly step this way , dr leon sterndale .
a man followed me from london bridge station , and i have no doubt great heaven !
then he came swiftly along the path , passed close to where we lay , and went on up the long slope behind us .
early that morning a peasant had met a cart containing several people and some very bulky boxes driving rapidly in the direction of reading , but there all traces of the fugitives disappeared , and even holmes ' ingenuity failed ever to discover the least clue as to their whereabouts .
my friend hardly glanced up as i entered , and i , seeing that his investigation must be of importance , seated myself in an arm chair and waited .
what steps do you propose to take now , lestrade ?
this shows that he was not attacked the instant that he entered the room .
in the uncertain , shadowy light i could see dimly that there were glancing , glimmering eyes peeping down at us from every cranny and corner .
we have had a charming little breath of your beautiful dartmoor air .
he saw her stealthily open the window , hand out the coronet to someone in the gloom , and then closing it once more hurry back to her room , passing quite close to where he stood hid behind the curtain .
if i am to lodge with anyone , i should prefer a man of studious and quiet habits .
here i had heard what he had heard , i had seen what he had seen , and yet from his words it was evident that he saw clearly not only what had happened but what was about to happen , while to me the whole business was still confused and grotesque .
you , of course , saw that everyone in the street was an accomplice .
she died of typhoid the year before i met him .
they are supposed to have belonged to some of the marauding barons of holdernesse in the middle ages .
but your family have been with us for several generations , have they not ?
in person he was a thick set , burly man with a shock of grizzled hair , a brown , weather beaten face , and blue eyes which were keen to the verge of fierceness .
his hair , too , as he swept off his very curly brimmed hat , was grizzled round the edges and thin upon the top .
one winter 's night , as we sat together by the fire , i ventured to suggest to him that , as he had finished pasting extracts into his common place book , he might employ the next two hours in making our room a little more habitable .
even the trivial fact that in the year a picture by greuze entitled la jeune fille a l'agneau fetched one million two hundred thousand francs more than forty thousand pounds at the portalis sale may start a train of reflection in your mind .
by doing this , mark you , sahib , his property becomes the due of those who have been true to their salt .
according to my experience it is not possible to reach the platform of a metropolitan train without exhibiting one 's ticket .
you can plan the rest for yourselves .
just imagine what it must be to be so rich , and to have the world at your feet !
the detective shook hands without a word .
very naturally .
i did , mr holmes .
he took to his bed on wednesday afternoon and has never moved since .
but that my girl should be entangled in the same meshes which held me was more than i could suffer .
that 's better ,
if these two folk passed away by road , it was this road .
there are the lights of my house ,
we shall make something of you yet .
to their contorted natures it had become a spirited and chivalrous thing to volunteer for service against some man who had never injured them , and whom in many cases they had never seen in their lives .
in his right hand he held a slip of litmus paper .
disease ?
thank you .
if i claim full justice for my art , it is because it is an impersonal thing a thing beyond myself .
sir george burnwell has been several times lately .
meanwhile i have so much sympathy for you that , if you choose to disappear in the next twenty four hours , i will promise you that no one will hinder you .
is not much in your line , but i can tell you that this is about the richest house in london .
at the end was a short flight of steps ending in a door .
i do n't know quite what to do , and i should value your advice .
when have i ever had a secret from you ?
clair 's coat , and not neville st .
oh , mr holmes , i wish you would do as much for me .
well , well , you have your own methods , mr sherlock holmes , and it is not for me to say a word against them , but i think i have done a better day 's work than you .
easier the other way , perhaps and yet , had i the nerve to lie and look up at that deadly black shadow wavering down upon me ?
i wonder how many real amber mouthpieces there are in london ?
he cried in a high , screaming voice .
is it not obvious to you now that this matter really strikes very much deeper than either you or the police were at first inclined to think ?
the german name of the victim , the absence of all other motive , and the sinister inscription on the wall , all pointed to its perpetration by political refugees and revolutionists .
the revolver shots had roused the household .
have you your stethoscope ?
i promised her on my word that i would send him home in a cab within two hours if he were indeed at the address which she had given me .
it is as if you met a tram car coming down a country lane .
and have you any on hand just now ?
now he begins to flash .
the man 's skull had been shattered by a blow from a poker delivered from behind .
evidently , as they had dragged the stone up they had thrust the chunks of wood into the chink , until at last , when the opening was large enough to crawl through , they would hold it open by a billet placed lengthwise , which might very well become indented at the lower end , since the whole weight of the stone would press it down on to the edge of this other slab .
her young womanhood had , i knew , been spent in rough scenes and under strange conditions .
i think our investigations must now carry us to woolwich .
the drawn blinds and the smokeless chimneys , however , gave it a stricken look , as though the weight of this horror still lay heavy upon it .
i will sit on the side of the bed , and you in that chair .
how did he acquire wealth ?
excellent , watson !
it may be some time before i get back .
well , i never thought that i should see anything more of the russian and his son , so you can imagine my amazement when , at the very same hour this evening , they both came marching into my consulting room , just as they had done before .
how he went out to it , and his astonishment at recognizing , from the white forehead which has given the favorite its name , that chance had put in his power the only horse which could beat the one upon which he had put his money .
in it i enumerate a hundred and forty forms of cigar , cigarette , and pipe tobacco , with colored plates illustrating the difference in the ash .
it was to take her at a disadvantage to obtrude love upon her at such a time .
we were all assembled round him when the door opened , and a tall , gaunt woman entered the room .
looking back he saw the old man and the young girl crouching over the blazing fire , while the three animals stood motionless in the back ground .
henri fournaye and eduardo lucas were really one and the same person , and that the deceased had for some reason lived a double life in london and paris .
he had nothing a few years ago .
somewhere in the dark ooze at the bottom of the thames lie the bones of that strange visitor to our shores .
he changed his appearance as far as he could , and trusted that the likeness , which you could not fail to observe , would be put down to a family resemblance .
oh , indeed !
he has the power of observation and that of deduction .
better pick up mr melas on our way ,
well , i am an honest man , though not a very rich one .
it looked as if the pair might take an immediate departure , and so necessitate very prompt and energetic measures on my part .
i remember that it was full of papers .
oh , yes , you can .
but i am now sleeping in the middle one .
in the middle of it was the black figure of the secretary , his head advanced , peering out into the night .
well , if holmes takes the same view , that would account for his action , would it not ?
the same evening the two men arrived , each carrying his gripsack .
my companion was a powerful , broad shouldered young fellow , and , apart from the weapon , i should not have had the slightest chance in a struggle with him .
with his personal advantages and his extraordinary gifts for he can speak several languages and play nearly every musical instrument it is wonderful that he should have been satisfied so long in such a position , but i suppose that he was comfortable , and lacked energy to make any change .
before pronouncing judgment , however , be it remembered , how objectless was my life , and how little there was to engage my attention .
i am a little nervous , and i find my hookah an invaluable sedative .
she cried , in a strange foreign voice .
if i had been less cautious i might have been more wise , but i was half crazy with fear that you should learn the truth .
our dinner was tete a tete , and though my host did his best to be entertaining , his thoughts seemed to continually wander , and he talked so vaguely and wildly that i could hardly understand him .
knowing that he would return there , garcia , who is the son of the former highest dignitary in san pedro , was waiting with two trusty companions of humble station , all three fired with the same reasons for revenge .
can you suggest no explanation ?
you can understand , however , that the situation is a little strained .
i did n't dare to disobey him .
at this moment there was a loud ring at the bell , and i could hear mrs hudson , our landlady , raising her voice in a wail of expostulation and dismay .
night was coming on rapidly , and it was almost dark before he at last found himself in a defile which was familiar to him .
at six , watson , we resume our conversation .
hitherto i had been acting , and action had numbed thought .
douglas !
if you will be one of us this night , we will swear to you upon the naked knife , and by the threefold oath which no sikh was ever known to break , that you shall have your fair share of the loot .
you know it well , then ?
at the same instant we heard voices in the house and the sound of hurrying feet .
and now i will make the thing clear to you it has been a long time in the acting , but will not take me long to tell .
put the pearl in the safe , watson ,
the third , rodger , was the black sheep of the family .
before god i swear that i did not !
it must be a very serious feud that would be kept up with such earnestness for as long as that .
in point of fact he had just turned his thirtieth year .
i flatter myself that i could find my way about .
he hardly spoke a word the whole way out to the southern suburb , but sat with his chin upon his breast and his hat drawn over his eyes , sunk in the deepest thought .
thick !
but james knew nothing of that .
i 'll go into that later .
it is necessary that you should withdraw .
it is a small crop which we have gathered .
he was the best shot in india , and i expect that there are few better in london .
holmes had the impersonal joy of the true artist in his better work , even as he mourned darkly when it fell below the high level to which he aspired .
the old man put on a very knowing expression .
he lowered it through the hole , and there it lies .
might i ask from whom ?
no , sir , i have not .
the photograph becomes a double edged weapon now .
there was no man , sir
come out into the sunshine !
thaddeus brought this up , and if this splinter be poisonous thaddeus may as well have made murderous use of it as any other man .
then he placed it without a word upon the seat beside him .
i have my stick .
you awake , jack !
there will be enough to make every one of us rich men and great chiefs .
he had heard nothing , and the affair remained a complete mystery .
i have one or two things which i would wish to do now that i am in town .
he had then had several successful voyages in succession , and in the following year , , he retired .
i have another appointment ,
i exclaimed .
what then ?
there is nothing to be afraid of .
you will not be surprised , mr holmes said she to hear that i am leaving mr carruthers 's employment .
mr henry baker can have the same by applying at : this evening at b , baker street .
to follow them and break into their intimate conversation seemed to be an outrage , and yet my clear duty was never for an instant to let him out of my sight .
and how do you propose to do so ?
i want her to night at eight o'clock , ' said he , ' eight o'clock sharp , mind , for i have two gentlemen who will n't be kept waiting .
well at least they gave that impression .
but let us have it a little clearer if you can .
two gentlemen were awaiting us in the station the one a tall , fair man with lion like hair and beard and curiously penetrating light blue eyes the other a small , alert person , very neat and dapper , in a frock coat and gaiters , with trim little side whiskers and an eye glass .
now , these are a really very fine series of portraits .
holmes glanced at his watch .
the expression of his face froze the attention of the audience .
he is a big , powerful chap , clean shaven , and very swarthy something like aldrige , who helped us in the bogus laundry affair .
my friend shook his head .
i had no idea .
the case was featureless as i remember it .
the embankment is not on the direct line to the station .
the next i heard of frank was that he was in montana , and then he went prospecting in arizona , and then i heard of him from new mexico .
when i was a lad i worked out every tree and building in the estate .
i do not recall any other question which i desired to ask .
we stood with bitter hearts on either side of the mangled body , overwhelmed by this sudden and irrevocable disaster which had brought all our long and weary labours to so piteous an end .
the little man 's eyes sparkled as he spoke , and he was evidently in a state of suppressed exultation at having scored a point against his colleague .
look here ,
one more question , your grace .
and yet he showed again and again , as he had shown in the railway carriage , a capacity for sudden , fierce anger , which compelled the respect and even the fear of those who met him .
here it is on the stone of the stair also .
when i promised her i would say nothing she kissed me , and i have never seen her since .
no , i never did .
yet they are not averse to comfortable chairs and the latest periodicals .
when evening came i felt that it would be an imprudence to leave so precious a thing in the office behind me .
several before i knew cyril .
little lucy ferrier was borne along pleasantly enough in elder stangerson 's waggon , a retreat which she shared with the mormon 's three wives and with his son , a headstrong forward boy of twelve .
by the same brilliant reasoning , every man 's body is to be found in the neighbourhood of his wardrobe .
i took our mongrel accordingly , and left him , together with a half sovereign , at the old naturalist 's in pinchin lane .
i drink your health councillor , and to our better acquaintance .
we had not long to wait .
it is a hereditary matter so in order to give you an idea of the facts , i must go back to the commencement of the affair .
but its color was what had impressed me most .
it was at once clear that a daring and gigantic robbery had been committed .
the floor was formed by the rafters , with thin lath and plaster between , so that in walking one had to step from beam to beam .
by the way , doctor , i shall want your co operation .
do they go up too ?
my sympathies and my love went out to her , even as my hand had in the garden .
however , since you think otherwise , we will let it rest at that .
tell us then where we shall find him .
young openshaw shall not long remain unavenged .
she gasped .
she and her brother are the only children of an iron master somewhere up northumberland way .
oh , indeed !
this and a certain tinge of superstition were the only unusual traits in his character which his brother officers had observed .
if so , it is a serious case .
every last one of them , semaphore , lamp code , marconi a copy , mind you , not the original .
i was staggered for the moment ,
ten will be early enough .
yes , so you would say .
on a rock which overlooked the track , showing out dark and plain against the sky , there stood a solitary sentinel .
a beard !
there 's a convict escaped from princetown , sir he 's been out three days now , and the warders watch every road and every station , but they 've had no sight of him yet .
they laughed and jeered as he was pushed into the police station .
do n't you see now whence these words have been taken ?
it was a cold morning of the early spring , and we sat after breakfast on either side of a cheery fire in the old room at baker street .
he was equally certain that the same stranger had , while standing at the window , drugged his curried mutton , and so deprived the stables of their watchman .
it may be the effect of this illness , but it seems to me that
what did she mean by that ?
i pointed into the darkness .
so now we have the clear problem .
he had refused to yield to threats , and he had handed the notices to the police .
the division seems rather unfair ,
colonel moran turned to the official detective .
you reasoned it out beautifully ,
dark enough and sinister enough .
my name is doctor percy trevelyan ,
in that case i should be glad to hear the evidence and to examine the premises without an instant of unnecessary delay .
yes , we could easily give you a shake down .
oh , no , mr holmes nothing very particular .
at present i am , as you know , fairly busy , but i propose to devote my declining years to the composition of a textbook , which shall focus the whole art of detection into one volume .
i found that the key was indeed his , that he had entered my room to know if i wanted tea , and that he had very carelessly left the key in the door when he came out .
walk past me , and then look back at me .
this is really rather an awkward fix for me .
i knew that he was staying at halliday 's private hotel , and i hung about all day , but he never came out .
, taking the slip of paper and the pencil which holmes handed to him .
but see !
began holmes .
if the earth told a true story , then stapleton never reached that island of refuge towards which he struggled through the fog upon that last night .
vermissa .
she dropped her thick black veil over her face and glided from the room .
there was someone in the carriage , for example , with whom he was having an absorbing interview .
it was a giant dog , as large as a calf , tawny tinted , with hanging jowl , black muzzle , and huge projecting bones .
at nine o'clock lestrade called for us with the carriage , and we set off for hatherley farm and the boscombe pool .
she has her freedom .
you notice those bright green spots scattered thickly over it ?
then on saturday , unless you hear to the contrary , we shall meet at the ten thirty train from paddington .
it was a page torn from a notebook .
it is a romance !
an observer would have found it difficult to say whether he was nearer to forty or to sixty .
it came here .
for myself , as i followed his gaze my skin was cold under my clothes .
strange dogs sauntered up and stared wonderingly at us as we passed , but our inimitable toby looked neither to the right nor to the left , but trotted onwards with his nose to the ground and an occasional eager whine which spoke of a hot scent .
i had waited patiently for the opportunity for i was aware that he would never permit cases to overlap , and that his clear and logical mind would not be drawn from its present work to dwell upon memories of the past .
his wife had some inkling of his plans but she had such a fear of her husband a fear founded upon brutal ill treatment that she dare not write to warn the man whom she knew to be in danger .
oh , tut , tut !
i may not know exactly where he is , but i am quite sure that i could help the police to lay their hands on him .
you are holmes , the meddler .
i was convinced , from his intent face and his purposeful manner , that at last he was upon a clue .
i am lost without my boswell .
the stapletons came in afterwards , and the good doctor took us all to the yew alley at sir henry 's request to show us exactly how everything occurred upon that fatal night .
he had been taken swiftly to beckenham , and had acted as interpreter in a second interview , even more dramatic than the first , in which the two englishmen had menaced their prisoner with instant death if he did not comply with their demands .
opposite was a large bookcase , with a marble bust of athene on the top .
i was a little hurt .
come with me and introduce me .
well , it was n't a fat man , anyhow .
how do i know that they are lying ?
but , though i am exceptionally strong in the fingers , it would take me all my time to break it .
how long have you been here , doctor ?
i passed over the grossness of his language , as he seemed half out of his mind with fear .
it looks newer than the other things ?
i stood there , with his blood splashing round me , and i waited for a bit , but all was quiet , so i took heart once more .
do you tell me ,
she showed it to me , watson , and it was an indian rupee .
he had probably seen it before that night on which you caught him .
was printed on the leather inside .
with an apology for my intrusion , i was about to withdraw when holmes pulled me abruptly into the room and closed the door behind me .
he walked swiftly and in silence for some few minutes until we had turned down one of the quiet streets which lead towards the edgeware road .
sometimes i think that we never shall , ' he has answered .
this writing is of extraordinary interest ,
a fortnight has passed since his flight , during which he has not been seen and nothing has been heard of him .
it is a good wine , holmes .
but , then , if i remember right , you had not heard the name of professor james moriarty , who had one of the great brains of the century .
it came from the door of the house .
one more direction !
he cried .
for half an hour , holmes worked with concentrated energy , laying down one tool , picking up another , handling each with the strength and delicacy of the trained mechanic .
my friend did not appear to be depressed by his failure , but shrugged his shoulders in half humorous resignation .
an almanac !
it will not be possible for you to present in that compact form which is dear to your heart .
press him .
let me hear all about it , small .
retired from operatic stage ha !
if you will n't , i will for you .
if not , it shall never be seen by mortal eye and your secret , whether you be alive or dead , shall be safe with us .
my rings were put on his finger but when it came to the wedding ring ,
more than once i have surprised her in tears .
in spite of his obtrusive baldness , he gave the impression of youth .
then his own death was suicide !
except yesterday afternoon .
finally he sprang to his feet .
a meeting of the guild had been held that evening at eight , and mrs barclay had hurried over her dinner in order to be present at it .
now , watson , i think that we shall find that we have a long and rather complex day 's work before us .
it sounds to me like the beginning of the end ,
he was to bring his boat round on a certain night to an old wharf which was never guarded , and there he was to pick me up .
one word before you go ,
let me see !
his bullying , overbearing manner was all gone too , and he cringed along at my companion 's side like a dog with its master .
she is the only woman in the house .
yes that is mr st .
gregson and lestrade exchanged glances as if they thought this proposition rather a bold one but holmes at once took the prisoner at his word , and loosened the towel which we had bound round his ancles .
on the last occasion he had remarked that if my friend would only come with me he would be glad to extend his hospitality to him also .
but whatever you do must be to morrow for we must lie low until the pinkerton affair is settled up .
no , here ,
i must therefore ask you , madam , to be kind enough to place it in my hands .
but the telegraph posts upon this line are sixty yards apart , and the calculation is a simple one .
you must really give your horses a rest and come in to have a glass of wine and to congratulate me .
well , possibly so .
then your eyes ceased to pucker , but you continued to look across , and your face was thoughtful .
a further knowledge of facts is necessary before i would venture to give a final and definite opinion .
it was dated from poplar at twelve o'clock .
you have a desk in your office ?
i know nothing myself save what i have read or heard .
i had been lying in an angle of the hedge close by the highroad , and just a little lower down was a long building , which proved , upon my approaching it , to be the very station at which i had arrived upon the previous night .
employ the police , then .
now , presuming that the source of the crime is as we suspect it to be , there might be two different motives .
i take it , in the first place , that neither of us is prepared to admit diabolical intrusions into the affairs of men .
muttered my companion .
and yet it may be premature to abandon the case .
not a bit , doctor .
have you read gaboriau 's works ?
a little later a rakish young workman , with a goatee beard and a swagger , lit his clay pipe at the lamp before descending into the street .
he has neither a knife nor any sign of a wound .
nothing could be more conclusive .
if what she says is corroborated , i do not think she or her husband has much to fear .
but the solar system !
the dark panelling glowed like bronze in the golden rays , and it was hard to realize that this was indeed the chamber which had struck such a gloom into our souls upon the evening before .
i do n't think there is anything more to be learned here .
such was the remarkable narrative to which i listened on that april evening a narrative which would have been utterly incredible to me had it not been confirmed by the actual sight of the tall , spare figure and the keen , eager face , which i had never thought to see again .
i have already said that he must have gone to king 's pyland or to mapleton .
far away , from among the kentish woods there rose a thin spray of smoke .
then nancy fainted , and i caught up the key of the door from her hand , intending to unlock it and get help .
the two police officers were dozing .
there he goes !
this he placed in the middle of the floor and , squatting down upon a stool in front of it , he threw back the lid .
that a man should lie in wait for and follow a very handsome woman is no unheard of thing , and if he has so little audacity that he not only dared not address her , but even fled from her approach , he was not a very formidable assailant .
there is nothing more to be said or to be done to night , so hand me over my violin and let us try to forget for half an hour the miserable weather and the still more miserable ways of our fellow men .
i thought it as well ,
except for releasing the lady i will see that everything is kept exactly as i have found it , but i beg you not to lose an instant , as it is difficult to leave sir eustace there .
oh , he will be silent !
that 's right .
he did burn the letter .
the old farmer followed them to the door .
among other things , i learned to dispense drugs for the surgeon , and picked up a smattering of his knowledge .
however , lestrade was anxious to get his man into safe quarters , so within a few minutes our cab had been summoned and we were all four upon our way to london .
well , there are some on the stall with the gas flare .
the bedrooms in this wing are on the ground floor , the sitting rooms being in the central block of the buildings .
it is lestrade 's little cock a doodle of victory ,
so much so ,
we cannot let him perish at our very gates .
the only unofficial consulting detective ,
i could not help smiling at the document when i had completed it .
no servant would stay with us , and for a long time we did all the work of the house .
knocking mr warren about ?
over lloyd 's registers and files of the old papers , following the future career of every vessel which touched at pondicherry in january and february in ' .
then , in the gloom , we saw the two side lamps of a trap light up in the stable yard of the inn , and shortly afterwards heard the rattle of hoofs , as it wheeled out into the road and tore off at a furious pace in the direction of chesterfield .
they were certainly very much larger than any which he could have made , and were evidently quite fresh .
our own colours , green and white .
you are mad , elise !
and the farmers take in lodgers .
brunton then unlocked the box , handed up the contents presumably since they were not to be found and then and then what happened ?
i am disappointed in stanley hopkins .
they saw that i must know all about it , you see , and the sudden change from absolute security to complete despair made them perfectly desperate .
you see , watson , if all else fails me i have still one of the scientific professions open to me ,
oh , jack , it would be the saving of you !
possibly not .
omne ignotum pro magnifico , ' you know , and my poor little reputation , such as it is , will suffer shipwreck if i am so candid .
she touched a spring , and the front hinged back .
then the fact that the two men were never together , but that the one always appeared when the other was away , was suggestive .
mr victor hatherley , hydraulic engineer , a , victoria street rd floor .
we all learn by experience , and your lesson this time is that you should never lose sight of the alternative .
here at least was a problem which would tax his sagacity to the utmost .
day succeeded day , and my friend took no step forward .
no doubt ,
it was as well that he made a break for it before the note reached us !
yes , they were peculiar boots .
how far do you think it is ?
guess i 'll come with you on any terms ,
you have not had any demand of the sort ?
he would rather walk with me in the evening than in the daylight , for he said that he hated to be conspicuous .
now let me hear of it .
there is one other point , however .
saturday was always the lodge night , and mcmurdo was leaving his house to attend it when morris , the weaker brother of the order , came to see him .
have you had something to eat ?
but it is quite a town .
mahomet singh was left to guard the door .
mcginty laughed .
well , i should n't be surprised , holmes .
from all that you have told me , it seems obvious that your faculty of observation and your peculiar facility for deduction are due to your own systematic training .
julia went there at christmas two years ago , and met there a half pay major of marines , to whom she became engaged .
he has been of most vital use to me in several of my cases , and a lucky chance has made it possible for me to bring him out and associate him with this investigation .
lawler was an elderly man , shrewd , silent , and self contained , clad in an old black frock coat , which with his soft felt hat and ragged , grizzled beard gave him a general resemblance to an itinerant preacher .
i was dispatched , accordingly , in the troopship orontes , and landed a month later on portsmouth jetty , with my health irretrievably ruined , but with permission from a paternal government to spend the next nine months in attempting to improve it .
the man 's savage eyes were blazing with anger .
late in the evening , he went down to his own hut .
holmes sprang in his chair as if he had been stung when i read the headlines .
the wagonette swung round into a side road , and we curved upward through deep lanes worn by centuries of wheels , high banks on either side , heavy with dripping moss and fleshy hart ' s tongue ferns .
it 's wrong it 's all wrong i 'll swear that it 's wrong .
there was about him also that glamour of experience and of mystery which attracts a woman 's interest , and finally her love .
then perhaps you will explain this receipted bill for thirteen guineas , paid by mr godfrey staunton last month to dr leslie armstrong , of cambridge .
an apparent clue was at once obtained , since a boy and a young man were reported to have been seen leaving a neighbouring station by an early train .
it was a stroke of positive genius on his part to see in the burglary scare which was convulsing the country side an opportunity of plausibly getting rid of the man whom he feared .
she cried .
we do n't need your deductions , mr holmes , to tell us that .
in neither case were there any signs which could give us a clue as to the criminal or lunatic who had done the mischief .
what effect do you think it will have upon his plans now that he knows you are here ?
the man seemed to be beside himself with excitement .
i should not dream of doing so were it not absolutely certain that i should be able in four days to reclaim it .
a dull wrack was drifting slowly across the sky , and a star or two twinkled dimly here and there through the rifts of the clouds .
one is that the murdered man had an appointment with someone at the pool , and that the someone could not have been his son , for his son was away , and he did not know when he would return .
it biases the judgment .
some people say that the manager just plunges his hand into the heap and takes the first that comes .
exactly .
dr mortimer started violently .
you are sure it was not a house breaker 's jimmy ?
i think you will find ,
to the leadenhall street post office , to be left till called for .
what is that ?
holmes pricked up his ears .
just close the door ,
heap it on , stokers !
oh , come , now , come !
holmes smoked hard , with his browns drawn down over his keen eyes , and his head thrust forward in the eager way characteristic of the man .
who knows ?
peeping into the open door , they saw a sight which sent them flying , with white faces , into the village .
i must , therefore , abandon my client to her fate or i must play this last card .
i am so frightened about him !
beside it were the crumbling remains of the cottages of the miners , driven away no doubt by the foul reek of the surrounding swamp .
i 'm not denying it ,
they 're married !
there 's blackmail in it , or i am much mistaken .
he has nerves of steel , and yet i know that he has hardly slept since this terrible event .
the four of us must always act together .
my own complete happiness , and the home centred interests which rise up around the man who first finds himself master of his own establishment , were sufficient to absorb all my attention , while holmes , who loathed every form of society with his whole bohemian soul , remained in our lodgings in baker street , buried among his old books , and alternating from week to week between cocaine and ambition , the drowsiness of the drug , and the fierce energy of his own keen nature .
now i 'll get down to the lodge , and we 'll soon make old man pinkerton sorry for himself .
that is my trade .
shall i do so ?
i do n't know him .
now that they are scattered over five miles or so , it may be a harder job .
it seemed to be one of those senseless acts of hooliganism which occur from time to time , and it was reported to the constable on the beat as such .
a fool takes in all the lumber of every sort that he comes across , so that the knowledge which might be useful to him gets crowded out , or at best is jumbled up with a lot of other things so that he has a difficulty in laying his hands upon it .
how long are we to endure it ?
a moderate walk along this moor path brings us to merripit house ,
kill him !
there was no answer but the lad andrews stepped forward and shot him in the stomach .
it was a dangerous , reckless attempt , in which i seem to trace the influence of young alec .
however , i can find no trace here .
i determined to say nothing about the former to my wife , for she is a nervous , highly strung woman , and i had no wish that she would share the unpleasant impression which had been produced upon myself .
but surely , jack , you must have read all this .
i had not the professional enthusiasm which carried my companion on , nor could i look at the matter as a mere abstract intellectual problem .
but let us hear the end , mr mac .
just look it up , then .
one hears one hears such dreadful stories about those who oppose the prophet : something terrible always happens to them .
sherlock holmes listened with closed eyes and fingertips together to this remarkable account .
it took some time ,
sure , i 've read enough of the slush !
and yet that indian was a sly fellow also .
it was a long and melancholy vigil , and yet brought with it something of the thrill which the hunter feels when he lies beside the water pool , and waits for the coming of the thirsty beast of prey .
i have already looked into the matter , and have come , as i think , within sight of my solution .
he takes the obvious course of keeping her at home and forbidding her to seek the company of people of her own age .
it would be difficult to name any articles which afford a finer field for inference than a pair of glasses , especially so remarkable a pair as these .
abbey grange , marsham , kent , : a .
and this promises to be interesting .
even after i became suspicious , i found it hard to think evil of such a dear , kind old clergyman .
yet we have not a moment to lose .
how about this mysterious ally ?
oh , this is hardly a case for me to theorize over ,
he certainly would not leave them of his own free will .
you may look upon me simply as an irregular pioneer , who goes in front of the regular forces of the country .
a greek friend had come to see him upon business , he said , and as he could speak nothing but his own tongue , the services of an interpreter were indispensable .
but now the official police must know all .
their reason for choosing so unusual an hour for a consultation was obviously to insure that there should be no other patient in the waiting room .
he met me with the dog cart at the station , and i saw at a glance that the last two months had been very trying ones for him .
it was already twilight when we reached the scene of our problem .
lynch the cursed scowrer !
see how the folk swarm over yonder in the gaslight .
my dear sir ,
slowly my reason has cleared , but it is only during the last three days that my memory has quite returned .
it is a most insoluble mystery .
there is a wonderful sympathy and freemasonry among horsey men .
he ran out and ran in , smoked incessantly , played snatches on his violin , sank into reveries , devoured sandwiches at irregular hours , and hardly answered the casual questions which i put to him .
why should i not ?
i feel that also , sir , and so does my wife .
you can go to blazes !
your hand stole towards your own old wound and a smile quivered on your lips , which showed me that the ridiculous side of this method of settling international questions had forced itself upon your mind .
he calls attention , and with reason , to the discrepancy about his father having signalled to him before seeing him , also to his refusal to give details of his conversation with his father , and his singular account of his father 's dying words .
you may know the strict principles of her family .
well , his position is unique .
she had lit a fire there , and as it smoked she had opened the window .
i followed , however , with many other officers who were in the same situation as myself , and succeeded in reaching candahar in safety , where i found my regiment , and at once entered upon my new duties .
his defence was one of absolute ignorance , and he protested that he had no knowledge as to the doings of hugh boone , his lodger , and that he could not account in any way for the presence of the missing gentleman 's clothes .
by the method of exclusion , i had arrived at this result , for no other hypothesis would meet the facts .
that is all .
assessments and taxes were enormous the public works were notoriously neglected , the accounts were slurred over by bribed auditors , and the decent citizen was terrorized into paying public blackmail , and holding his tongue lest some worse thing befall him .
she cried ,
but the outward bound ones were very much deeper so much so that we can say for a certainty that there was a very considerable weight on the carriage .
was it to be in church ?
after this i went to see melville , at whose house i had first met garcia , but i found that he really knew rather less about him than i did .
why , you are like a magician ,
i 'm very well where i am .
they are both from the guion steamship company , and refer to the sailing of their boats from liverpool .
i had no part in it , sir i was as grieved as if it had been my blood relation .
nearly a hundred thousand pounds ' worth of american railway bonds , with a large amount of scrip in mines and other companies , was discovered in the bag .
either i must find the man or else the examination must be postponed until fresh papers are prepared , and since this cannot be done without explanation , there will ensue a hideous scandal , which will throw a cloud not only on the college , but on the university .
i can assure you that many times in the course of the evening i wished that i could invent some excuse which would take me back to lee .
how came the woman 's ring there ?
the bible !
frankland clapped his eye to it and gave a cry of satisfaction .
if you hold these views , why have you come to consult me at all ?
my father 's yacht may well have been blown to the north , and there met by captain peter carey 's ship .
no sound came from within .
then he reseated himself in his chair and looked them over with a gleam of satisfaction in his eyes .
the coroner : what did you understand by that ?
the cab which i had seen had pulled up at our door .
i wonder , since you are both maiden ladies , that you do not keep house together .
on the contrary ,
he was , indeed , half blubbering with fear , and his twitching feeble face peeping out from the great astrakhan collar had the helpless appealing expression of a terrified child .
it is , as you perceive , the first cross road on the east side .
the ejaculation had been drawn from my companion by the fact that our door had been suddenly dashed open , and that a huge man had framed himself in the aperture .
my subject is greek , and the first of the papers consists of a large passage of greek translation which the candidate has not seen .
arthur would rather that we spoke the truth , ' the girl answered firmly .
his writing has a legal twist about it .
well , about six weeks ago she came to me .
he thrust me into that dark hiding place a relic of old days , known only to himself .
i 'll follow her ,
if i die to morrow , as is likely enough , i die knowing that my work in this world is done , and well done .
the crooked man
yes his brother , colonel valentine walter , has testified to his departure from woolwich , and admiral sinclair to his arrival in london so sir james is no longer a direct factor in the problem .
i would not have missed it for worlds .
having conceived the idea he proceeded to carry it out with considerable finesse .
cried mcmurdo .
he was able to fix up his own little hiding place without any confederate save , of course , that precious housekeeper of his , whom i should lose no time in adding to your bag , lestrade .
then , still keeping a hundred yards behind , we followed into oxford street and so down regent street .
it is really a very curious case .
dear me !
confound the fellow !
holmes swept his light along the window sill .
he cried .
what was that ?
imagine , then , my feelings when in the seaman who came to us i recognized instantly the man who had been picked off the wreck .
i have just been looking through all the recent papers in order to master the particulars .
i can see that you have a strong , natural turn for this sort of thing .
this chance of the picture has supplied us with one of our most obvious missing links .
arms : azure , three caltrops in chief over a fess sable .
next monday i have a large sum due to me , and i shall then most certainly repay what you advance , with whatever interest you think it right to charge .
he was never seen again alive .
within a quarter of an hour we had been dropped at the door of the physician 's residence in brook street , one of those sombre , flat faced houses which one associates with a west end practice .
barrymore had returned from taking our luggage to our rooms he stood in front of us now with the subdued manner of a well trained servant .
and you say you can penetrate it ?
what on earth are you doing in this den ?
proud i am to hear it ,
this might partly be due to the fact that a lamp stood flaring and smoking on the centre table .
in that case one of the main points in favor of the accused disappears .
he would send a scout on ahead , and if anything made him suspicious lie snug for another week .
was all that he could say .
it is a wonderful place , the moor ,
now , doctor ,
again , you will observe that the words are not gummed on in an accurate line , but that some are much higher than others .
capital !
i should say that it was much more likely that it was the son of one of the moorland shepherds taking out his father 's dinner .
i had no idea that the paymaster was such a rascal , though i have long had an eye upon him .
i see that i have alluded above to his powers upon the violin .
mccauley cleared .
the number of the cab which dropped a fare at or about the door of the foreign office in charles street at quarter to ten in the evening of may d .
oh , i have my hand upon him .
the housekeeper was busied with some work in the back of the house .
and what did you do then ?
you mean that the person will come again ?
their host had placed whisky upon the table , and they had hastened to prime themselves for the work before them .
it came slowly along the passage , and there was a feeble tap at the door .
it 's a bad place , the great grimpen mire .
it 's no use , john clay ,
had this secret society to do with politics ?
she saw no one but the constable .
i do n't know .
in kennington road , and within a few hundred yards of morse hudson 's shop , there lives a well known medical practitioner , named dr barnicot , who has one of the largest practices upon the south side of the thames .
what is this , holmes ?
she is the daintiest thing under a bonnet on this planet .
whatever he wanted he must have , and whatever it was i gave him without question , land , money , houses , until at last he asked a thing which i could not give .
one night his secret came out .
he was in a class by himself .
the air of london is the sweeter for my presence .
on the left here .
but his papers were my great crux .
there are several other indications , but these may be enough to aid us in our search .
if you can call upon me at my baker street rooms to morrow morning between nine and ten i shall be happy to do what i can to make it clearer .
but i read suspicion in his eyes .
must you really go ?
and why were you so pressing that sir charles should destroy your letter ?
as to you , mr carruthers , i think that you have done what you could to make amends for your share in an evil plot .
oh , an old horse faker like him has many a dodge .
stapleton may fall in with such a superstition , and mortimer also , but if i have one quality upon earth it is common sense , and nothing will persuade me to believe in such a thing .
at first it seemed to be impossible , but i soon devised a means .
then , with the help of some italian employee , he succeeded in finding out where the other three busts had gone .
his luggage ?
my brothers !
so does the card on the body , which might have been prepared in the house .
he was noble , unselfish , loving all that my husband was not .
that i who have a fair claim to nigh upon half a million of money should spend the first half of my life building a breakwater in the andamans , and am like to spend the other half digging drains at dartmoor .
one experiment served to show me the line of his investigation .
the butler brought me my coffee into the library , and i took the chance to ask him a few questions .
you do n't mind the smell of strong tobacco , i hope ?
the point about the signature is very suggestive in fact , we may call it conclusive .
the men are known .
is that agreed ?
my dear holmes , what do you mean ?
yes , but very small ones .
those are the only people that you would find within the grounds of yoxley old place .
by the way , who is that ?
and his asking to be allowed to go out for five minutes !
dark clothes nothing you would note .
it was a prosaic way of forming a friendship , but it was effective .
it was upon the th of march , as i have good reason to remember , that i rose somewhat earlier than usual , and found that sherlock holmes had not yet finished his breakfast .
he carried the lamp across to it , muttering his observations aloud the while , but addressing them to himself rather than to me .
he was to kill his best friend , or he was to expose himself and me to the vengeance of his comrades .
you see this other page in red ink ?
then there were ninety seven very fine emeralds , and one hundred and seventy rubies , some of which , however , were small .
i have the pleasure ,
stangerson cried , white with rage .
that was like following the brook to the parent lake .
but for the trained reasoner to admit such intrusions into his own delicate and finely adjusted temperament was to introduce a distracting factor which might throw a doubt upon all his mental results .
when , however , another morning had come , and i found that beyond the arrest of young fitzroy simpson nothing had been done , i felt that it was time for me to take action .
this is far the most important of all for our purpose .
he held out his hand and displayed upon the centre of the palm a brilliantly scintillating blue stone , rather smaller than a bean in size , but of such purity and radiance that it twinkled like an electric point in the dark hollow of his hand .
he gasped .
i could not warn him , for there was no time but i held your hand , baldwin , when you would have killed him .
his height i know that you might roughly judge from the length of his stride .
there was no sign of the presence of anyone in the house , except mrs porter , the old cook and housekeeper , who declared that she had slept deeply and heard no sound during the night .
it was from the reigning family of holland , though the matter in which i served them was of such delicacy that i cannot confide it even to you , who have been good enough to chronicle one or two of my little problems
this is terrible !
no , we have no news of any kind ,
in only one matter has she ever gone against my wishes .
have you any reason to be dissatisfied with my choice ?
i remained in my hiding place , and it was well that i did so , for presently the man reappeared , cycling slowly back .
thank you ,
i did n't know that you found time for such things .
no lies !
in the family of colonel spence munro , but two months ago the colonel received an appointment at halifax , in nova scotia , and took his children over to america with him , so that i found myself without a situation .
he jumped up when he heard my business , and i had my whistle to my lips to call a couple of river police , who were round the corner , but he seemed to have no heart in him , and he held out his hands quietly enough for the darbies .
so intractable and fierce are they that all the efforts of the british official have failed to win them over in any degree .
then the brother for that , i fancy , must be the relationship comes over from greece to interfere .
that is the true story , gentlemen , of all that occurred .
you see it , watson ?
excuse me a moment , and i may be able to give you some further information about it .
i bowed with a coldness which showed , i dare say , very plainly the impression which had been produced upon my mind .
it is clear now that some danger is threatening your lodger .
thank heaven that you have come !
but i have not got to the end yet .
have you ever had occasion to study character in handwriting ?
have you formed a theory about how that bell rang ?
perhaps it would be better if i gave you an account of the whole situation when that work is finished .
i 'll have the plate moved over to the bank this evening .
this case is a snorter .
it will n't be long now before he is here to help us .
no , watson , i fear that i could not undertake to recognize your footprint amid all the footprints of the world .
i have felt like one of those poor rabbits when the snake is writhing towards it .
started at half past six , and here it is back again .
i think that on the whole you have had a fortunate escape ,
education , gregson , education .
i will say nothing to add to his anxieties , but i will take my own steps to attain my own end .
the wound upon the dead man was , as i was able to determine with absolute confidence , fired from a revolver at the distance of something over four yards .
whatever the reason , ferrier remained strictly celibate .
the agent may be caught .
he was off in one of those hysterical outbursts which come upon a strong nature when some great crisis is over and gone .
as he passed he observed that his old housekeeper had put out her lamp and retired .
there is the signal station all right .
i am very anxious at getting no answer .
i felt also in my heart that he was right in what he said and that it was really best for our purpose that i should not have known that he was upon the moor .
he 'll do better for you some of these days , i 'm thinking .
open the door slightly .
i had , therefore , examined the ears in the box with the eyes of an expert and had carefully noted their anatomical peculiarities .
from left , ' in faded pencil writing .
of friday , june th .
but you and your friend are men of discretion , mr holmes ?
no sound came from within , and at the silence holmes ' face clouded over .
i cried .
i walked into the doctor 's yard this morning , and shot my syringe full of aniseed over the hind wheel .
i learned , however , about a trap door in the roof , and also about mr sholto 's supper hour .
no : i am not tired .
now , mr holmes , you know the people who live under my roof , and i shall continue with my miserable story .
i had intended the adventure of the abbey grange to be the last of those exploits of my friend , mr sherlock holmes , which i should ever communicate to the public .
now , miss violet , what has happened to you , near farnham , on the borders of surrey ?
that i did not know .
but he is right .
setting aside the whole grim story of sir charles 's death , we had a line of inexplicable incidents all within the limits of two days , which included the receipt of the printed letter , the black bearded spy in the hansom , the loss of the new brown boot , the loss of the old black boot , and now the return of the new brown boot .
can n't you hear me , holmes ?
hold the light at the door and we shall get them out , mycroft , now !
cried our client .
on this syringe i base all my hopes .
i should let the name stand .
i saw the outside of the note , addressed in straggling , irregular characters , very unlike holmes 's usual precise hand .
he was a kind of italian piece work man , who made himself useful in the shop .
i do n't see , brother morris ,
one half we return into the box for future purposes .
can you remember , ames , what mr barker had on his feet last night when you joined him in the study ?
there were three possible courses .
it was kind of you to come .
all over the countryside , away to the rolling hills around aldershot , the little red and grey roofs of the farm steadings peeped out from amid the light green of the new foliage .
but how do you propose to lay your hands on the so called porlock ?
it was a curious way of managing it , but , really , it would be difficult to suggest a better .
a white cock ,
she followed me , however , before i could close the door .
we had run two miles , i suppose , before holmes at last halted and listened intently .
ted baldwin , who sprawled now in the seat of honour beside the bodymaster , had been chief of the party .
did anyone know that these proofs would be there ?
that is natural enough , considering the condition of the room .
and yet you have sent for me ?
a pompous butler ushered us severely to the door , and we found ourselves in the street .
pooh , man you should soar above it .
gold pin bull dog 's head , with rubies as eyes .
how bitter that quarrel may have been , or how hollow the reconciliation we cannot tell .
von bork detached a small key from his watch chain , and after some considerable manipulation of the lock he swung open the heavy door .
he saw your theft , but could not give the alarm , as it was just possible that you were taking the papers to your brother in london .
consider the long sequence of incidents which have all pointed to some sinister influence which is at work around us .
well , pompey , you may not be fast , but i expect you will be too fast for a couple of middle aged london gentlemen , so i will take the liberty of fastening this leather leash to your collar .
he would try by a few attentions to make his peace with the girl howells , and then would engage her as his accomplice .
yes , quite recently .
i know something , sir henry , and perhaps i should have said it before , but it was long after the inquest that i found it out .
then mr angel began to call , for it was obvious that the matter should be pushed as far as it would go if a real effect were to be produced .
too few !
as to the occurrences of the night before , he had very little to add to what he had already told the police .
we would not dare to conceive the things which are really mere commonplaces of existence .
quite so .
i feel as if my name and my misfortune must be in every man 's mouth .
the inquest is to morrow .
it was clear to me at a glance that he was in the grip of some deadly and chronic disease .
a fierce quarrel broke out , which was increased by the two guardsmen , who took sides with one of the loungers , and by the scissors grinder , who was equally hot upon the other side .
there was a cab passing as we came out , and holmes hailed it .
i could have sworn that it was set in a malicious and abominable smile .
well , i think we must wait for a little more material .
a thousand pounds !
where have you put it ?
worst of all , he speedily assumed the same attitude towards my daughter , alice , and spoke to her more than once in a way which , fortunately , she is too innocent to understand .
my only claim to being taken into your confidence is that during my many residences here i have come to know this family of tregennis very well indeed , upon my cornish mother 's side i could call them cousins and their strange fate has naturally been a great shock to me .
not one of your cases , watson mental , not physical .
the ex prize fighter mcmurdo had , i found , been arrested as an accessory , and both he and mr sholto had been marched off to the station .
if they give us time we must have them .
there 's ten times that for you , ' said he , ' if you can find me all that i want .
it is worth trying , at all events .
his costume was a peculiar mixture of the professional and of the agricultural , having a black top hat , a long frock coat , and a pair of high gaiters , with a hunting crop swinging in his hand .
i began , but holmes answered my question before it was asked .
now , if you are well up in your london , you will know that the office of the company is in fresno street , which branches out of upper swandam lane , where you found me to night .
there is a definite treaty there .
there i am not in a position to help you .
on the inside of the flap he wrote s .
suddenly , as the landlady 's footsteps died away , there was the creak of a turning key , the handle revolved , and two thin hands darted out and lifted the tray from the chair .
i shall take up as little of your valuable time as possible , so i shall start at once upon my peculiar experiences .
what was that ?
even if it seems to tell against him , go on .
i trust the matter is not so grave as you suppose .
every shade of colour they were straw , lemon , orange , brick , irish setter , liver , clay but , as spaulding said , there were not many who had the real vivid flame coloured tint .
mrs marker , you can go .
on the other hand , if you convince the police authorities that there is no possible case against you , i do not know that there is any reason that the details should find their way into the papers .
it was a very remarkable performance very remarkable .
the lash , however , was curled upon itself and tied so as to make a loop of whipcord .
the one , austere , high nosed , eagle eyed , and dominant , was none other than the illustrious lord bellinger , twice premier of britain .
it is a question of hydraulics , you see , and came within my own province .
first of all , what is your name ?
their evidence , corroborated by that of several friends , tends to show that sir charles 's health has for some time been impaired , and points especially to some affection of the heart , manifesting itself in changes of colour , breathlessness , and acute attacks of nervous depression .
then i do not see the point .
the light in our window above showed that this late visit was indeed intended for us .
it is extraordinary how credulous the peasants are about here !
you see , mr holmes , i am a very stay at home man , and as my business came to me instead of my having to go to it , i was often weeks on end without putting my foot over the door mat .
but , as i have had occasion to remark , there is but one step from the grotesque to the horrible .
for my own part , i had followed step by step the methods by which he had traced the various windings of this complex case , and , though i could not yet perceive the goal which we would reach , i understood clearly that holmes expected this grotesque criminal to make an attempt upon the two remaining busts , one of which , i remembered , was at chiswick .
and occasionally like this .
the effect of our inquiries at woolwich has in the main been against young cadogan west but the indications at the window would lend themselves to a more favourable hypothesis .
leaving all his private concerns , like the good citizen that he was , he followed you closely in the fog and kept at your heels until you reached this very house .
it was that of a man about forty three or forty four years of age , middle sized , broad shouldered , with crisp curling black hair , and a short stubbly beard .
holmes whispered .
if you could send her into the cellar on some errand , and then turn the key upon her , you would facilitate matters immensely .
oh , yes plenty .
why should he fear a trap ?
it was not as if the barrymores had taken us into their confidence .
jacobs , bring down my despatch box .
chemistry .
you do n't mean to say ,
how , then , could he conceal the launch and yet have her at hand when wanted ?
the brother is dead and the jewels are gone .
a large scale map , i presume ?
by whom ?
i am sorry to cut off your view , mr melas ,
then how did you get at mr douglas and the fact that he had been horribly murdered ?
my friend knocked at the little rustic door , and knocked again without response .
have you any friends ?
therefore a third person must have entered the room .
these last were continually changing , for it was never a very cheery situation , and sometimes it became past all bearing .
that you would have joined us in a friendly supper .
on the contrary , for a small street in a quiet neighbourhood , it was remarkably animated .
tingling with anger , i rushed down and hurried across , determined to end the matter once and forever .
that this reuben hayes knows all about it .
the matter was perfectly simple .
we shall give you two others in the place of them .
among these are the family of a retired brewer called melville , living at abermarle mansion , kensington .
i have a cab outside .
if it is not too much trouble .
maybe when it is done there will be a few odd dollars at the bottom of the box .
it was all very confused .
it was a relief to me when at last , after a light dinner , we set out upon our expedition .
well , it is rather obvious .
in the first place she was seized by your secretary , and stabbed him in order to escape .
i would say , eminent bodymaster , that if a man should be wanted i should take it as an honour to be chosen to help the lodge .
you will understand now how it was that i strove to keep the peace with him , and you will in some measure sympathize with me in the fears which fill me , now that he has gone from me to his other victim with threats upon his tongue .
watson ,
holmes glanced at his watch .
remember that i speak not only as one comrade to another , but as a medical man to one for whose constitution he is to some extent answerable .
it is a woman 's .
he stepped across the grass plot and tapped with his hand on the pane .
the sly devil god forgive me that i should speak of him so , now that he is dead !
smack !
poor jack is dead !
it is a very easy complaint to imitate .
james came into contact with this fellow hayes , because the man was a tenant of mine , and james acted as agent .
that he should come to me for help , and that i should send him away to his death !
how lucky that i happened to be out at norwood over another case !
between them an elderly , gray bearded man , wearing a short surplice over a light tweed suit , had evidently just completed the wedding service , for he pocketed his prayer book as we appeared , and slapped the sinister bridegroom upon the back in jovial congratulation .
yes he is coming .
if he would confine his energies to this all would be well , but there are rumours that he intends to prosecute dr mortimer for opening a grave without the consent of the next of kin because he dug up the neolithic skull in the barrow on long down .
he continued , turning to the two detectives .
it might have driven me mad but i was always a pretty stubborn one , so i just held on and bided my time .
lord bellinger !
the dear fellow wanted to see if the missing piece were at the scene of the struggle .
eh , watson ?
arthur does .
was there any feature of interest ?
my wife agreed with me that not a moment should be lost in laying the matter before him , and so within an hour of breakfast time i found myself back once more in the old rooms in baker street .
what do you make of them ?
when the ring was found , however , it settled the question .
it is simplicity itself ,
no , i never heard of her using it .
they undoubtedly showed that the affair was much deeper than was at first conjectured .
that is my name .
there is nothing so deceptive as the distance of a light upon a pitch dark night , and sometimes the glimmer seemed to be far away upon the horizon and sometimes it might have been within a few yards of us .
nearly ten weeks ago to be more accurate , on the d of may he called me into his private room , and , after complimenting me on the good work which i had done , he informed me that he had a new commission of trust for me to execute .
exactly .
look at those big , isolated clumps of building rising up above the slates , like brick islands in a lead colored sea .
never be ashamed to own up .
when she would n't do it , he kept on worrying her until she got brain fever , and for six weeks was at death 's door .
there was a box of vestas , two inches of tallow candle , an a d p brier root pipe , a pouch of seal skin with half an ounce of long cut cavendish , a silver watch with a gold chain , five sovereigns in gold , an aluminum pencil case , a few papers , and an ivory handled knife with a very delicate , inflexible blade marked weiss co .
we had all listened with the deepest interest to this sketch of the night 's doings , which holmes had deduced from signs so subtle and minute that , even when he had pointed them out to us , we could scarcely follow him in his reasoning .
you are the best of messengers .
so were the tinted spectacles and the curious voice , which both hinted at a disguise , as did the bushy whiskers .
mr carruthers was a widower , but he had engaged a lady housekeeper , a very respectable , elderly person , called mrs dixon , to look after his establishment .
but i allow that i can hold him till you come .
i tell you that he is a clever and dangerous man .
that he was , sir i never got such a turn in my life as when i saw him grinning at me with his head on his shoulder as i climbed through the window .
his chief of staff is colonel sebastian moran , as aloof and guarded and inaccessible to the law as himself .
if so , how terrible would be the position in which i should find myself !
holmes bowed coldly , and motioned the lady to a chair .
peering in , we could see that the only light in the room came from a dull blue flame which flickered from a small brass tripod in the centre .
then he dashed in wild pursuit amid the stream of the traffic , but the start was too great , and already the cab was out of sight .
inside was ' p .
then my friend rose and threw open the door .
i sprang from my bed , wrapped a shawl round me , and rushed into the corridor .
sir henry ?
then one comes suddenly upon something very hard , and you know that you have reached the limit and must adapt yourself to the fact .
were he but gifted with imagination he might rise to great heights in his profession .
inside was a beautiful stretch of lawn with an old sundial in the middle , the whole effect so soothing and restful that it was welcome to my somewhat jangled nerves .
what is it , then ?
there is complete confidence between my husband and me on all matters save one .
the candles and the fire must have burned out hours before , and they had been sitting there in the dark until dawn had broken .
the parcel was directed , then , by a man the printing is distinctly masculine of limited education and unacquainted with the town of croydon .
irene 's photograph !
i sprang from my chair and limped impatiently about the room with considerable bitterness in my heart .
very good .
all very fine , mr holmes ,
a conversation ensued which led to high words and almost to blows , for my father was a man of a very violent temper .
i sprang up and lit the lamp , but nothing was to be seen in the room .
no , thank you , joseph .
there !
why had holmes remained at woking ?
with many mumbled blessings and protestations of gratitude the old crone packed it away in her pocket , and shuffled off down the stairs .
what o clock was this ?
the poor old fellow was white and quivering from the shock .
i can n't bear disgrace , sir i 've always been proud above my station in life , and disgrace would kill me .
he still carried the heavy stick which the mother described him as having with him when he followed drebber .
i understand you to say that there are three students who use this stair , and are in the habit of passing your door ?
it is beyond our reach .
the night air was heavy with the smell of damp and decay .
look here , small ,
they inherit plantagenet blood by direct descent , and tudor on the distaff side .
drive us to some decent hotel , cabby , where we may have some lunch , and afterwards we shall drop down upon friend lestrade at the police station .
see how the brass shines where it is cut .
they have been cut off with a blunt instrument , which would hardly happen if a student had done it .
there is something devilish in this , watson ,
you have made your position very clear to me ,
i slipped through his grip , and he with a horrible scream kicked madly for a few seconds , and clawed the air with both his hands .
baskerville hall , oct .
and yet , without a harshness which was foreign to his nature , it was impossible to refuse to listen to the story of the young and beautiful woman , tall , graceful , and queenly , who presented herself at baker street late in the evening , and implored his assistance and advice .
the famous scientific criminal , as famous among crooks as
perhaps they have not heard yet of all that happened here during the night ?
we have been on the look out for him , and there was some idea that he had got away to america .
i went at once to my room and drew up my report of the morning 's conversation for holmes .
the thought had hardly passed through my mind when the man whom we were watching caught sight of the number on our door , and ran rapidly across the roadway .
i allude , of course to his working career .
and how ?
it was the last that i was ever destined to see of him in this world .
is it a lonely farm ?
it did wonders both in the crimea and the mutiny , and has since that time distinguished itself upon every possible occasion .
no , no , jack , bluster will n't do with me .
cried both detectives .
where was the horse ?
then he got away through the window and left his gun behind him .
he relapsed into a moody silence , which was not broken until we drew up in serpentine avenue .
i had better put my hat on , i suppose .
there was the long , gloomy tunnel down which he fled .
all right !
you have hopes of solving it ?
three weeks .
it seems absurdly simple , and yet , somehow i can get nothing to go upon .
it was a widespread , comfortable looking building , two storied , slate roofed , with great yellow blotches of lichen upon the grey walls .
cried hopkins , in an ecstasy of admiration .
but i have a fancy for working it out myself , now that we have gone so far .
no , no , it 's no man of the district .
wait a little ,
as to her being a person of refinement and well dressed , they are , as you perceive , handsomely mounted in solid gold , and it is inconceivable that anyone who wore such glasses could be slatternly in other respects .
no water pipe near .
of late i have been tempted to look into the problems furnished by nature rather than those more superficial ones for which our artificial state of society is responsible .
you tell me in the same breath that it is useless to investigate sir charles 's death , and that you desire me to do it .
viewing the matter as an abstract problem , i had forgotten how personal and painful a thing it might be to you .
very good .
she was passing the front pew at the time , and it fell over into the pew .
i 'll pledge my word there was no mark on it yesterday .
come up with me , and we will talk the matter over .
now , then , where are we to find our savage ?
if i lay on my face the weight would come upon my spine , and i shuddered to think of that dreadful snap .
god bless you for your trust in me !
dearest do not be frightened .
no , indeed ,
you here !
indeed !
sherlock holmes gives a demonstration
whoa , there , whoa !
much has come to him from his father , and more still he has set by himself , for he is of a low nature and hoards his gold rather than spend it .
might i not escort her to this place ?
a spectral hound which leaves material footmarks and fills the air with its howling is surely not to be thought of .
come with me !
maybe you do n't believe what i say .
did you ever trouble to see who called for them ?
continued my companion imperturbably .
what is your theory , then , as to those footmarks ?
bless you , sir , if any one is about he will be , for he is always the first stirring .
but for god 's sake do what i ask you .
he still smiled and blinked , but there was something about his eyes which made me feel very glad that i had it there .
if you are here , then it follows that mr sherlock holmes is interesting himself in the matter , and i am naturally curious to know what view he may take .
i suppose that you are the detectives from london ?
her initials were l .
in a most extraordinary fashion .
nor have i .
who attends to them ?
it was of such importance that i have never left it in my safe , but have taken it across each evening to my house in whitehall terrace , and kept it in my bedroom in a locked despatch box .
oh , the mystery !
it has been written hurriedly and upon his own responsibility entirely .
to you , and to you only , belongs the credit of the remarkable arrest which you have effected .
obviously the first thing to do was to see the grimpen postmaster and find whether the test telegram had really been placed in barrymore 's own hands .
are you quick of action ?
you will begin in each case by giving the outside porter one shilling .
it was clear that this had been fired at close range and that he had received the whole charge in the face , blowing his head almost to pieces .
even in his chastened frame of mind , the noble miser could give us no information which could help us , for he knew little of the private life of his nephew .
it was just growing dusk at the time .
nursed her as a baby , and came with her to england when they first left australia , eighteen months ago .
mr douglas enters the room .
i heard that you had been down to the office .
on the day following the evening which had contained so many exciting events , mcmurdo moved his lodgings from old jacob shafter 's and took up his quarters at the widow macnamara 's on the extreme outskirts of the town .
her courage was admirable .
a second solution was at this stage obviously possible , and although i thought it exceedingly unlikely , i was determined to elucidate it before going further .
no doubt it is an american shotgun ,
of the centre table i could make nothing , until in your description of gilchrist you mentioned that he was a long distance jumper .
that you are never beaten .
by the way , it is not eight o'clock , and a wagner night at covent garden !
ivy lane , brixton , ' he answered .
because he limped he was lame .
he cried .
good morning , mrs smith .
to right and left of the turrets were more modern wings of black granite .
we had the carriage to ourselves save for an immense litter of papers which holmes had brought with him .
man , it 's witchcraft !
one morning he spent in town , and i learned from a casual reference that he had visited the british museum .
it 's a very rare bird practically extinct in england now , but all things are possible upon the moor .
a passing tramp sees them through the window , the blind of which is only half down .
do not worry about my future , for that is provided for and , above all , do not search for me , for it will be fruitless labour and an ill service to me .
among the older men were many whose features showed the tigerish , lawless souls within but looking at the rank and file it was difficult to believe that these eager and open faced young fellows were in very truth a dangerous gang of murderers , whose minds had suffered such complete moral perversion that they took a horrible pride in their proficiency at the business , and looked with deepest respect at the man who had the reputation of making what they called a clean job .
this is the letter which i read to him
cried the king
you mean to norwood ,
i tell you , there was never a man in this world loved a woman more than i loved her .
i think that it is a hundred to one against smith knowing where they live .
but i have felt another man since the doctor bandaged me , and i think that your breakfast has completed the cure .
too complex for description .
mcmurdo , who had already been appointed inner deacon , with every prospect of some day succeeding mcginty as bodymaster , was now so necessary to the councils of his comrades that nothing was done without his help and advice .
i 'll tell her how awful good you 've been .
simon shook his head .
had i been with sir henry and you it is confident that my point of view would have been the same as yours , and my presence would have warned our very formidable opponents to be on their guard .
baskerville .
they would have had the lady 's purse and watch if it had n't been for him .
you have no chance at all .
five attempts have been made .
he had for years been known as a professional beggar , but his life appeared to have been a very quiet and innocent one .
once our friends stopped and stared into a shop window , upon which holmes did the same .
good heavens , are you mad ?
huxtable 's sidelights on horace may possibly recall my name to your memories .
the square , massive house , with its black , empty windows and high , bare walls , towered up , sad and forlorn , behind us .
i understand that this gentleman , your friend , is a man of honour and discretion , whom i may trust with a matter of the most extreme importance .
the neck was drawn out like a plucked chicken 's , making the rest of him seem the more obese and unnatural by the contrast .
ah , that is a question that will take some time to answer .
he had uttered a cry and bent over the body .
hence the cocaine .
at what o'clock was it raised ?
what is he after ?
i hope that i make it all plain ?
so much is known to the world , but what i am telling you now is what i have myself discovered .
inside , a gravel path wound through desolate grounds to a huge clump of a house , square and prosaic , all plunged in shadow save where a moonbeam struck one corner and glimmered in a garret window .
for the moment i could proceed no farther in that direction , but must turn back to that other clue which was to be sought for among the stone huts upon the moor .
i expect that within an hour matters will come to a head .
then he 's no use to me .
tobin , the care taker , was murdered , and the thieves got away with seven thousand pounds .
it was a foggy , cloudy morning , and a dun coloured veil hung over the house tops , looking like the reflection of the mud coloured streets beneath .
you will get no worse than your deserts from that , mr douglas .
nothing to complain of , sir there 's never very much to do of a morning .
no doubt i am wrong .
there is water in your eyes ,
it is no ordinary crime .
that is of enormous importance ,
i really fancy that you are not far from the truth .
brilliant , watson .
she is down the river somewhere .
i heard some rumour of it ,
i have heard of you before .
simple as the case is , there have been one or two very instructive details in connection with it .
showing that she had struck a light and looked about her when the alarm took place .
i sprang out , they tried to drag me back , and had it not been for the help of this good man , who led me to the cab , i should never had broken away .
i thought as much ,
did you , for example , happen to hear someone , a woman i think , sobbing in the night ?
i shall call with the king to morrow , and with you , if you care to come with us .
now it was clear to me that our lady of to day had nothing in the house more precious to her than what we are in quest of .
he had a garden and two or three fields round his house , and there he would take his exercise , though very often for weeks on end he would never leave his room .
i wish to be perfectly frank with you , mrs lyons .
i heard a gentle sound of movement , and then all was silent once more , though the smell grew stronger .
it may or may not be connected with our inquiry , but we will follow it backwards before we go any farther .
paid five hundred to be left alone .
who then ?
he had hurried back to the house , followed within a few minutes by the police sergeant , who arrived at the scene of the crime a little after twelve o'clock , after taking prompt steps to warn the county authorities that something serious was afoot .
perhaps you would like me to stay there to night ?
the situation is desperate , but not hopeless .
at that moment in rushed the husband with his revolver in his hand .
and what marks did you see by the wicket gate ?
we were all rather afraid that after the sad death of sir charles the new baronet might refuse to live here .
no , sir nothing .
my horror at his crimes was lost in my admiration at his skill .
his dress was quiet and sombre a black frock coat , dark trousers , and a touch of color about his necktie .
guard the prisoner , you two , and shoot him if he tries any games .
i whisked round and had just time to catch a glimpse of something which i took to be a large black calf passing at the head of the drive .
by the way , would it bore you to tell me where you got the other one from ?
where in the name of all that is wonderful did you get those names ?
it was thick fog , and one could not see three yards .
i could not send him away .
i may tell you i trust that i am not indiscreet , but half confidences are absurd in such a case that he was not entirely happy at home .
it chanced that some days before a gentleman who had been engaged in looking over some houses in the brixton road had dropped the key of one of them in my carriage .
to london ?
the senior clerk and draughtsman , mr sidney johnson .
the dad raised their wages all round to recompense them for the annoyance .
i wish it had come to any one of you but me .
why in thunder should anyone follow or watch me ?
athens .
if i have your confidence and your help , it is little that we have to fear .
you compel me to tell you that this is too serious a matter to be treated in such a fashion .
his paper stands for all that is solid in the valley .
just ring the bell and the maid will bring up your coffee .
according to the country surgeon , the lady had stains upon her face , but none upon her hand .
he indicated my bundle of papers ,
in over a thousand cases i am not aware that i have ever used my powers upon the wrong side .
i could see that it was already a third full of bundles of paper tied up with red tape into separate packages .
the worthingdon bank gang ,
thank you , miss turner .
if it was n't for this gentleman here , i am not sure that you would not have succeeded .
he bowed again .
what the words were which attracted your attention ?
well , watson , you have one more specimen of the tragic and grotesque to add to your collection .
scowrers !
she is a very pretty girl and has attracted admirers who have occasionally hung about the place .
where was it found ?
perhaps i 'll pay my debt some day .
it is for me to ask you that ,
you see my dilemma .
why , of course i do !
it is of the utmost importance that you should notice this point .
i told you that they started together for south africa in the palmyra three weeks ago .
did he make no attempt to see you ?
a good deal of clothing with the stamp of marx and co .
that is in answer to mine of this morning .
but there has been some one else , a very able and efficient ally .
why did he go ?
having once made up my mind , you know the steps which i took in order to put the matter to the proof .
the other is a man 's , sun burned , discoloured , and also pierced for an earring .
in this there is no difficulty , and they seem to be above suspicion .
it was a few weeks before my own marriage , during the days when i was still sharing rooms with holmes in baker street , that he came home from an afternoon stroll to find a letter on the table waiting for him .
the prime minister is lunching with me .
here , one would say , is a bluff , honest fellow , whose heart would be sound however rude his outspoken words might seem .
i presume there are other papers there .
this morning he was removed to a cell , and i , after going through all the police formalities , have hurried round to you to implore you to use your skill in unravelling the matter .
sure , if you will only take it off mine .
one mistake had been made in not arresting boone instantly , as he was allowed some few minutes during which he might have communicated with his friend the lascar , but this fault was soon remedied , and he was seized and searched , without anything being found which could incriminate him .
there will be bloody work here before morning .
fairbairn used to stay there , and mary would go round to have tea with her sister and him .
it was all dim and vague , but always there is the dark shadow of crime behind it .
no one can say so more confidently than i .
we have found traces which show that a party of gypsies encamped on monday night within a mile of the spot where the murder took place .
there is nothing to which he , or anyone else , could object .
he was unable , however , to make his way in , and the maids were too distracted with fear to be of any assistance to him .
it 's been out three hours ,
we halted outside it .
occasionally they were fantastic and cheerful .
i saw that the whole case hung upon one point .
they are usually wrapped in straw , you know , and are thinner for their length than any other brand .
it 's not that i want to clear myself .
well , i 've had a good day and no mistake ,
yes , a dangerous matter so dangerous that even the most saintly dared only whisper their religious opinions with bated breath , lest something which fell from their lips might be misconstrued , and bring down a swift retribution upon them .
then he sat gazing for a moment in silent amazement at a small blue book which lay before him .
i swear that i will tell you everything some day , but nothing but misery can come of it if you enter that cottage .
davenport .
with those words he took his hat and started off down the street .
a blind ,
he groaned .
sure , we are all in it together ,
groaned hall pycroft .
the only bar to our escape is that we can get no boat fit for the voyage , and no provisions to last us for so long a time .
you can preserve your balance in every emergency .
she was a unit , a factor , nothing more .
tut , tut !
what is the next step ?
i wish you to drive to merripit house .
this is what we particularly desire to avoid .
we have had a very busy day , and not entirely a wasted one ,
you 'll be a mighty useful brother , i 'm thinking !
then i seized the poker and went downstairs .
it is an advantage to get about in such a case without taking a mercenary into your confidence .
the killing of the elder jenkins , shortly followed by that of his brother , the mutilation of james murdoch , the blowing up of the staphouse family , and the murder of the stendals all followed hard upon one another in the same terrible winter .
the next instant he was his masterful , practical self once more .
then i will tell you .
your last remark ,
when you observe the lower part of that watch case you notice that it is not only dinted in two places , but it is cut and marked all over from the habit of keeping other hard objects , such as coins or keys , in the same pocket .
that is jacobson 's yard ,
and you thought the rooms were watched ?
and , above all , take care of yourself in the meanwhile , for i do not think that there can be a doubt that you are threatened by a very real and imminent danger .
it was an empty palace which was stormed by the insurgents next day .
why should you , for a mere passing pleasure , risk the loss of those great powers with which you have been endowed ?
let me say to that public , which has shown some interest in those glimpses which i have occasionally given them of the thoughts and actions of a very remarkable man , that they are not to blame me if i have not shared my knowledge with them , for i should have considered it my first duty to do so , had i not been barred by a positive prohibition from his own lips , which was only withdrawn upon the third of last month .
the world is full of obvious things which nobody by any chance ever observes .
of course a match could not have done that .
that girl that i spoke of was to have married me twenty years ago .
yes , to verify how far bruises may be produced after death .
cadogan west was the young man who was found dead on the underground on tuesday morning .
in some way we struck up quite a friendship , this young fellow and i .
holmes grinned at the last item .
he hailed a cab .
he ran round , like a dog who is picking up a scent , and then turned upon my companion .
well , i thought over the matter all day , and by evening i was in low spirits again for i had quite persuaded myself that the whole affair must be some great hoax or fraud , though what its object might be i could not imagine .
what was that ?
when i woke it was broad daylight .
do you stand at the gate , mahomet singh , and give notice of their coming .
i seem to grow colder every step that i take away from it .
then my horse is running ,
then i 'll start the smiting ,
this tale of our client 's appeared to have an extraordinary effect upon sherlock holmes .
it represented an alert , sharp featured simian man , with thick eyebrows and a very peculiar projection of the lower part of the face , like the muzzle of a baboon .
but you have the truth now , holmes , and you can die with the knowledge that i killed you .
and now i think that we are in a position to undertake a thorough examination of the room .
i was struggling and screaming when gennaro entered and attacked him .
outside was a considerable yard full of monumental masonry .
his two clenched hands were raised above his head , and a heavy , blackthorn stick lay across them .
it 's likely enough .
they are friends of mine and gentlemen of experience , but they have been out of a place for some little time , and they hoped that perhaps you might find an opening for them in the company 's employment .
i assure you that there would not be the least chance of your coming back alive .
yes , sir , there must have been some very strange people with some very strange ways in this house .
strange remarkable ,
i am a dangerous man to fall foul of !
it ran in this way
maybe it was some danger that he could not be protected against .
but none was recovered , eh ?
he rushed at the burglars , but another it was an elderly man stooped , picked the poker out of the grate and struck him a horrible blow as he passed .
there can be no question that this was snatched from the face or the person of the assassin .
did they know that they would receive this ?
i do n't like it ,
see here !
my sister had told me some weeks before that i might have the pick of her geese for a christmas present , and i knew that she was always as good as her word .
is he giving us the slip ?
the station clock marked only seven minutes from the time when we were due to start .
we both stood gazing in astonishment .
he was a black maned giant , bearded to the cheek bones , and with a shock of raven hair which fell to his collar .
but at last we could see whence it came , and then we knew that we were indeed very close .
but now you have been kind to us , and i feel as if it would be treating you unfairly not to tell you all that i know about the matter .
i had gone up to town about an investment , and i met him in regent street with hardly a coat to his back or a boot to his foot .
the details of the case will probably be never known now , though we are informed upon good authority that the crime was the result of an old standing and romantic feud , in which love and mormonism bore a part .
he mumbled several words , you understand , but that was all that caught the son 's ear .
splendid !
run down , my dear fellow , and open the door , for all virtuous folk have been long in bed .
it is a white wooden gate with a latch .
apparently , therefore , it was the young man himself who had fastened the door .
i was at my wit 's end where to get the money , but a sudden idea came to me .
wait here an instant ,
what a queen she would have made !
he knew that something valuable was concealed .
just tell us the truth ,
it must , as you say , have been an overpowering necessity which tore him away in such a fashion , and the same necessity is likely to hold him away .
yours very truly ,
and where was the place ?
one realized the red hot energy which underlay holmes 's phlegmatic exterior when one saw the sudden change which came over him from the moment that he entered the fatal apartment .
through the fogged glass i dimly saw a man spring up from a chair beside the fire , and heard a sharp cry from within the room .
the lady , i think , you have already met .
that is all very clear ,
me and that little un are all that 's left o twenty one people .
why did he write at all ?
i make nothing of it ,
it 's getting on my nerves , this business , mr holmes ,
he was young , not more than five and twenty , i should say , with a strong , masculine face but he was exceedingly pale and gave me the impression of a man who was suffering from some strong agitation , which it took all his strength of mind to control .
give me the water !
you are sure of it ?
it is the butt end of the gun as the son stood listening .
at three o'clock precisely i was at baker street , but holmes had not yet returned .
it was a beautiful moonlight night , and the lawn in front of the house was silvered over and almost as bright as day .
they were piling up their score all the time and we were at a standstill .
thank you , mr sandeford here is your money , and i wish you a very good evening .
they invent this theory to account for the crime .
he would have begged for his life , but he knew well that it was useless .
mycroft holmes spoke with a solemnity which showed his sense of the importance of the subject .
then , with an angry gesture of his clenched hand , he closed the book , replaced it in the corner , and put out the light .
the drawers were open , the cupboard locked .
we will touch nothing until my superiors arrive ,
holmes waved away the compliment , though his smile showed that it had pleased him .
out of this landing opened the drawing room and several bedrooms , including those of mr cunningham and his son .
terse and to the point ,
brigham young has said it , and he has spoken with the voice of joseph smith , which is the voice of god .
i whispered ,
the instrument with which the injury had been inflicted lay upon the carpet beside him .
it is just possible that we may need something of the sort if we get to their lair .
i had n't been at the table ten minutes before i saw frank out of the window at the other side of the road .
this strange , wild story seemed to have come to us from amid the mad elements blown in upon us like a sheet of sea weed in a gale and now to have been reabsorbed by them once more .
instantly the trapdoor at the top flew up , something was screamed to the driver , and the cab flew madly off down regent street .
he dropped his gun and also it would seem this queer card v .
the solemn mr merryweather perched himself upon a crate , with a very injured expression upon his face , while holmes fell upon his knees upon the floor and , with the lantern and a magnifying lens , began to examine minutely the cracks between the stones .
you must know ,
in all england there can be no man who sets less value upon his own life than i do at the present moment .
what could it mean except that from the window he had suddenly either caught sight of us in the street , or in some way come to understand how close the danger was , and that he must act right away if he was to avoid it ?
down here , through this door .
a lucky long shot of my revolver might have crippled him , but i had brought it only to defend myself if attacked and not to shoot an unarmed man who was running away .
he came to me quite unexpectedly after i had actually addressed this envelope with the intention of sending you the key to the cipher .
this is of importance .
i promise you will go at six .
there still remained some lurking suspicion in my mind , however , that the whole thing was a pre arranged episode , intended to dazzle me , though what earthly object he could have in taking me in was past my comprehension .
and the dog ?
on the night of sir charles 's death barrymore the butler , who made the discovery , sent perkins the groom on horseback to me , and as i was sitting up late i was able to reach baskerville hall within an hour of the event .
in god 's name what shall i do ?
it was horrible .
i have seen forbes , and i have seen your uncle , and i have set one or two trains of inquiry upon foot which may lead to something .
it was so late that i could not get back to blackheath , so i spent the night at the anerley arms , and i knew nothing more until i read of this horrible affair in the morning .
now , i 'll state the case clearly and concisely to you , watson , and maybe you can see a spark where all is dark to me .
i fancy the yew alley , though not marked under that name , must stretch along this line , with the moor , as you perceive , upon the right of it .
that 's what puts him on a pinnacle in the records of crime .
i have no doubt i can get details from forbes .
you see this little book ?
each is suggestive , and together they are almost conclusive .
she tore from the bosom of her dress a small packet .
he hastened upstairs , and a few minutes later i heard the slam of the hall door , which told me that he was off once more upon his congenial hunt .
i thought little of it at the time , nor would have given it a second thought but for this letter but now i 'm sure it 's the man .
but the crime ?
i fancy that is quite obvious ,
come in here , macpherson .
shall i tell brother drebber ?
my gennaro !
i am armed .
address to mr barrymore , baskerville hall .
they meant him no good it was easy to see that .
it 's clear enough that so long as there are none of the family at the hall these people have a mighty fine home and nothing to do .
the swarthy giant glared at him , and his hairy paw closed for an instant round the glass as though he would hurl it at the head of his companion .
where was he sitting ?
these men have got hold of melas again .
i had been casting round for some excuse by which i could get away from his gossip , but now i began to wish to hear more of it .
the lad , then , had a companion in his flight .
in the case of lucy ferrier the occasion was serious enough in itself , apart from its future influence on her destiny and that of many besides .
to some extent ,
who are you , sir , and by what right do you touch this gentleman 's papers ?
in front of us as we flew up the track we heard scream after scream from sir henry and the deep roar of the hound .
for an instant before the end .
no doubt ,
and yet somehow on that particular night , whether it may have been the slight excitement produced by my little adventure or not i know not , but i slept much more lightly than usual .
it was he who told me of the doctor 's habits and of his daily journey .
having no mother , she had no one to advise her at such a crisis .
i think that an evening alone in that study would help me much .
it has always been said that my father stole all the securities and fled .
no , no , my dear fellow , there is no cause for alarm .
on the side next the boards .
suddenly , without a note of warning , the great mutiny broke upon us .
i could see that the unfortunate doctor was in the last stage of indecision , from which he was rescued by the deep , sonorous voice of the red bearded duke , which boomed out like a dinner gong .
i cried .
i therefore sent off a telegram to my friend algar , of the liverpool force , and asked him to find out if mrs browner were at home , and if browner had departed in the may day .
what happened with sic this : this young fellow had employed his afternoon at the athletic grounds , where he had been practising the jump .
as i approached the hut , walking as warily as stapleton would do when with poised net he drew near the settled butterfly , i satisfied myself that the place had indeed been used as a habitation .
i could name a score of cases in which it would have been decisive .
well , then , these tracks upon the grass , were they coming or going ?
he has lied to me , the villain , in every conceivable way .
you have an answer to everything .
a cycle map of the county lay on his bedroom table .
the difficulty is to detach the framework of fact of absolute undeniable fact from the embellishments of theorists and reporters .
the church of st .
i 'll have a row of electric lamps up here inside of six months , and you will n't know it again , with a thousand candle power swan and edison right here in front of the hall door .
how long did he wait ?
there was a bit of a haze , and you could not see more than a few hundred yards .
you do n't mean that baynes has got him ?
there are ten shillings over in case of emergencies .
during that time my wife and i have loved each other as fondly and lived as happily as any two that ever were joined .
her face was haggard and thin and eager , stamped with the print of a recent horror .
i 'll sit down , with your leave ,
once or twice he chuckled .
i caught one glimpse of his venomous , menacing eyes amid the white swirl of the waters .
i did the rest .
i keep it only to safeguard myself , and to preserve a weapon which will always secure me from any steps which he might take in the future .
here is an unexplained one .
holmes had taken several notes during mr harding 's evidence , and i could see that he was thoroughly satisfied by the turn which affairs were taking .
yes , that was it .
we are sure that there is no binding treaty between them .
i can only say that i am sorry i gave you the trouble to come and meet me .
i shall be brief , and yet exact , in the little which remains for me to tell .
it is not right that miss morstan should remain in this stricken house .
i do n't know .
the metal work was in the form of a double ring , but it had been bent and twisted out of its original shape .
what house is this ?
i have seen nothing of my horse ,
a lad of fourteen , with a bright , keen face , had obeyed the summons of the manager .
cried i , looking in amazement at this man who was forever confounding me with some new phase of his astuteness .
it is of that daughter that i would speak to you ,
i have been looking up the dates in the old files of the paper , and i find that the disappearance of the pearl was exactly two days before the arrest of beppo , for some crime of violence an event which took place in the factory of gelder co .
what i expected to see .
i fear that the scrambled eggs are cold .
it is very customary for pawnbrokers in england , when they take a watch , to scratch the number of the ticket with a pin point upon the inside of the case .
the light had flickered onwards , now stopping and now advancing , until i could see two dark figures upon the other side of the moat .
i 've seen many a drunk chap in my time ,
it was not that he felt any emotion akin to love for irene adler .
some remarks of his had given him this idea though he had never told him what the society was , nor how he had come to offend it .
you 've seen the paper , mr holmes ?
suddenly , however , he broke out into a sharp , querulous cry .
there was the huge famished brute , its black muzzle buried in rucastle 's throat , while he writhed and screamed upon the ground .
we have certainly been favoured with extraordinary luck during this inquiry , and it will be entirely our own fault if we do not succeed in clearing the matter up .
therefore i shall expect to meet you in the smoking room of the charing cross hotel at noon on saturday .
i could read it in the fellow 's brown eyes .
nowhere was there any trace of that lonely man whom i had seen on the same spot two nights before .
there they are , coming round the curve !
i had hoped for better things from him .
sure , it is the second time i have heard the valley so named ,
we know that that was the place and hour of his death .
i will look after the proofs .
i stood at the centre door with my eyes glancing at each of the others , ready for any emergency , though , indeed , my plans were somewhat vague as to what i should do if we were interrupted .
no one will n't have her very long though , for i saw death in her face yesterday .
these strange details , far from making the case more difficult , have really had the effect of making it less so .
what do you deduce from it ?
he and they had been among the nevada mountains prospecting for silver , and were returning to salt lake city in the hope of raising capital enough to work some lodes which they had discovered .
it was nearly ten o'clock before he entered , looking pale and worn .
to the success of our little expedition .
mrs tangey drinks , and our woman has been with her twice when she was well on , but she could get nothing out of her .
i fancy that this ally breaks fresh ground in the annals of crime in this country , though parallel cases suggest themselves from india , and , if my memory serves me , from senegambia .
he was obviously embarrassed for an instant , while the inspector raised his eyebrows , and alec cunningham burst into a laugh .
that 's all easy and plain .
yes , there are steps on the landing .
it will be an ill day for you , brother morris , when your own name comes on our agenda paper , and i 'm thinking that it 's just there that i ought to place it .
with all his vigilance john ferrier could not discover whence these daily warnings proceeded .
i am afraid the doctor will n't allow it .
it may be lurking among these rocks at this instant .
but i was after him in an instant and caught him by the sleeve .
a double line of glass stoppered bottles was drawn up upon the wall opposite the door , and the table was littered over with bunsen burners , test tubes , and retorts .
with a cracking of whips and a creaking of wheels the great waggons got into motion , and soon the whole caravan was winding along once more .
it really would be a good thing that we should all go over the house together and make certain that this rather erratic burglar did not , after all , carry anything away with him .
we 're not likely to forget him .
come to an entirely erroneous conclusion which shows , my dear watson , how dangerous it always is to reason from insufficient data .
my dear fellow !
the thing seems to me to be deeper and more inexplicable .
is it ready ?
have you seen the morning paper , watson ?
gasped the colonel , passing his hand over his eyes .
may i ask , in the first place , mr mcfarlane , how it is that you are still at liberty , since there appears to be enough evidence to justify your arrest ?
whoever had lost a treasure , i knew that night that i had gained one .
last monday mr neville st .
i thought it was paper talk , and that i would prove it so .
it appeared to be omniscient and omnipotent , and yet was neither seen nor heard .
it is very clear .
come , now , we shall see who agrees with you .
did you post that letter yourself ?
the young canting rascals !
lestrade shot an angry glance at my companion .
you will leave that question in my hands .
but what is the truth ?
i gave the maid a card , but i see that she has left it upon the side table .
no , finished .
this terrible secret society was formed by some ex confederate soldiers in the southern states after the civil war , and it rapidly formed local branches in different parts of the country , notably in tennessee , louisiana , the carolinas , georgia , and florida .
on the summit , hard and clear like an equestrian statue upon its pedestal , was a mounted soldier , dark and stern , his rifle poised ready over his forearm .
his expression grew very grave as he spoke , and a look of something akin to fear sprang up in his eyes .
i do n't know that i 've anything else to ask you at present ,
very good , do you make the masks .
i rather fancy that he is on the stair ,
it do n't matter .
when i looked in at the window , i found drebber all huddled together in a drunken sleep .
he cried , wringing holmes ' unresponsive hand ,
i can distinctly remember that as we did so there came three chimes from a neighboring clock .
how far is it to the house where this singular tragedy occurred ?
or is it possible that
it was difficult to realise as we looked at the line of fine shops and stately business premises that they really abutted on the other side upon the faded and stagnant square which we had just quitted .
well , then , what would either of you gentlemen have done , if you had been in my position ?
when , therefore , he suddenly announced his intention of setting out for the scene of the drama it was only what i had both expected and hoped for .
see , watson !
if by the aid of the powers which you are said to possess you can find such an envelope as i describe with its enclosure , you will have deserved well of your country , and earned any reward which it lies in our power to bestow .
i have , at least , a well polished , silver plated coffee pot in front of me ,
well , she saw something to alarm her .
i could read all that in the dust and i could read that as he walked he grew more and more excited .
but what is at the root of it ?
if the latter , it was less likely .
oh , jack , you are in danger !
a man came slinking along , went into the hut , gave a cry as if he had seen a ghost , and legged it as hard as he could run until he was out of sight .
mr hosmer angel came to the house again and proposed that we should marry before father came back .
mr culverton smith is a well known resident of sumatra , now visiting london .
as we passed the city the last rays of the sun were gilding the cross upon the summit of st .
well , well , mrs warren , let us hear about it , then .
you 'll do , tiger cormac .
the thick , warm air of the conservatory and the rich , choking fragrance of exotic plants took us by the throat .
i wish she had been of my own station !
but which of these is correct can only be determined by the fresh information which we shall no doubt find waiting for us .
i 'll tell you one or two things about moriarty which may interest you .
in notes to camberwell post office .
you had known ralph smith in south africa .
when i saw how many were waiting , i would have given it up in despair but spaulding would not hear of it .
kindly sign the paper where mr fordham shows you .
squatted on the doorstep , he was engaged in most carefully examining that which the man had brought from the house .
had she lived , i would certainly never have married anyone else .
i have cross examined these men , one of them a hard headed countryman , one a farrier , and one a moorland farmer , who all tell the same story of this dreadful apparition , exactly corresponding to the hell hound of the legend .
it suggested that at the time of the firing , the window as well as the door of the room had been open .
a tall , flaxen haired , slim young fellow opened it , and made us welcome when he understood our errand .
so far as i can judge the trend of events , you will probably be back in berlin within the week ,
must , as i said , be in the direction of blackheath .
to the logician all things should be seen exactly as they are , and to underestimate one 's self is as much a departure from truth as to exaggerate one 's own powers .
the reasoning was close and intense , but the deductions appeared to me to be far fetched and exaggerated .
lord holdhurst !
he was an invalid , keeping his bed half the time , and the other half hobbling round the house with a stick or being pushed about the grounds by the gardener in a bath chair .
so conscious was the manager of the responsibility which devolved upon him in consequence of the great interests at stake that safes of the very latest construction have been employed , and an armed watchman has been left day and night in the building .
but to day being saturday rather complicates matters .
surely that is evident .
the detective seated himself in the arm chair , and puffed complacently at his cigar .
there is nothing more to be done here , watson .
let no regard for your client 's interests keep you silent , for i assure you that his interests , if he would only see it , would be best served by taking me into his complete confidence .
it is well that this is so , for it is obviously of the utmost importance that sir charles 's heir should settle at the hall and continue the good work which has been so sadly interrupted .
the idea crossed my mind .
i have made up my mind .
we have heard of none .
no , sir , but the food was gone when next i went that way .
but what 's the game , mr holmes what 's the game ?
ha , i see that cartwright has brought up some supplies .
but you must have formed your own opinion .
and to what effect ?
i described drebber 's death to him , and i gave him the same choice of the poisoned pills .
all you have to do is just to wear out your chair in the consulting room .
they followed them warily , treading noiselessly in the deep snow .
we were just in time to catch a glimpse of the tall , black bearded figure , his shoulders rounded as he tiptoed down the passage .
your hand stole towards your own old wound , and a smile quivered on your lips , which showed me that the ridiculous side of this method of settling international questions had forced itself upon your mind .
and thus was solved the mystery of the sinister house with the copper beeches in front of the door .
the indian still paced his room .
of caution ?
from whom ?
and i went to look at the folk in the park ,
there he was dogged by his confederate , who held beppo responsible for the loss of the pearl , and he stabbed him in the scuffle which followed .
anything else ?
and now i come to the queer part of the business .
i am a light sleeper , and it has awakened me .
a single man in a dog cart , so far as i could see .
as we approached , the door flew open , and a little blonde woman stood in the opening , clad in some sort of light mousseline de soie , with a touch of fluffy pink chiffon at her neck and wrists .
it appeared in all the papers about a year ago .
here is one of the three men whom we had named as possible actors in this drama , and he meets a violent death during the very hours when we know that that drama was being enacted .
what is this ?
i 'd like a shillin ' ,
you are at liberty to preserve your secret , but you must promise me that there shall be no more nightly visits , no more doings which are kept from my knowledge .
anything else ?
she cried , at last .
mcmurdo laughed incredulously .
and yet have been unable to save him !
i cannot have you here .
you 'll be all right tomorrow .
in spite of its youth , it has already a sinister history .
then , glancing quickly round , he straightened himself out and burst into a hearty fit of laughter .
for it is natural that he should take a keen interest in the details .
dr sterndale drew from his pocket a paper packet and laid it upon the table .
oh , sir , you are the very man whom i have longed to meet ,
that with your short sight it is a little trying to do so much typewriting ?
i have heard so .
what has happened since then to give you a completely new idea of the case ?
but it is a stone ledge , and one could hardly expect them .
roared the ring .
no , certainly not .
certainly a gray mist swirled before my eyes , and when it cleared i found my collar ends undone and the tingling after taste of brandy upon my lips .
he is deeply interested .
my god !
the freckles started out on the lady 's face .
close at his heels came the colonel himself , a man rather over the middle size , but of an exceeding thinness .
certainly .
a long black shadow was trailing down the corridor .
that was our first drama at hurlstone but a second one came to drive it from our minds , and it was prefaced by the disgrace and dismissal of butler brunton .
he waits until the only other person in the house is in bed , and then in the solitude of a man 's room he murders him , burns his body in the wood pile , and departs to a neighbouring hotel .
having had a good look at his man , mcmurdo elbowed his way forward with his usual careless audacity , and pushed himself through the little group of courtiers who were fawning upon the powerful boss , laughing uproariously at the smallest of his jokes .
i should put scotland yard in touch with this business and yet , it is too pressing for us to leave .
the london express came roaring into the station , and a small , wiry bulldog of a man had sprung from a first class carriage .
for the rest , his house is full of butlers , footmen , maidservants , and the usual overfed , underworked staff of a large english country house .
the road in which we found ourselves as we turned round the corner from the retired saxe coburg square presented as great a contrast to it as the front of a picture does to the back .
let us see if we can pick up the trace again .
no , he took it himself .
so you have .
i hurled it out of the window , and it disappeared into the thames .
morstan went over to agra shortly afterwards , and found , as we expected , that the treasure was indeed gone .
the question might as well have been spoken .
oh , that 's it is it ?
the constable 's features broadened into a grin .
grumbled lestrade , taking a chair .
but nothing sensational was discovered among the documents which filled his drawers .
so much is clear to me .
we went upstairs together , the colonel first with the lamp , the fat manager and i behind him .
my word !
that is certainly remarkable , as the night was rainy , cloudy , and dark .
it rained hard this afternoon , as you know , and my patients were the only people who called .
what time was it ?
holmes was bending over my chair , his flask in his hand .
she is a heavy , solid person , very limited , intensely respectable , and inclined to be puritanical .
i am a stranger in london .
ha , ha , my boy , what do you make of that ?
seven from five ,
how do i know that you have been getting yourself very wet lately , and that you have a most clumsy and careless servant girl ?
pshaw , my dear fellow , what do the public , the great unobservant public , who could hardly tell a weaver by his tooth or a compositor by his left thumb , care about the finer shades of analysis and deduction !
i congratulate you warmly .
a crime of mysterious character was committed last night at godolphin street , one of the old fashioned and secluded rows of eighteenth century houses which lie between the river and the abbey , almost in the shadow of the great tower of the houses of parliament .
harraway , the secretary , was a lean , bitter man with a long , scraggy neck and nervous , jerky limbs , a man of incorruptible fidelity where the finances of the order were concerned , and with no notion of justice or honesty to anyone beyond .
they were at a boarding house at camberwell , over on the other side of the river .
what 's this , watson ?
we are aware that you went down to the office in the fog on monday night , but that you were seen and followed by young cadogan west , who had probably some previous reason to suspect you .
it was ten o'clock before we reached baker street again .
ah , this is a little more possible .
he did not seem offended .
i would not leave my wife alone all night for anything .
choosing the latter alternative , i began by making up my mind to leave the hotel , and to take up my quarters in some less pretentious and less expensive domicile .
this was a tall young man , surprisingly handsome , with a dark , fierce face , and the limbs and chest of a hercules .
there was something so methodical and so incomprehensible about the deeds of this unknown assassin , that it imparted a fresh ghastliness to his crimes .
set the pips on mccauley , paramore , and john swain , of st .
sherlock holmes his limits .
it was evidently as i had thought , and some secret meaning must lie buried in this strange combination of words .
with any luck we should be back here by two , with the lady eva 's letters in my pocket .
holmes murmured in a deprecating voice .
oh , you must not let me influence you in any way .
i had thought of that .
it 's an ugly business , watson , an ugly dangerous business , and the more i see of it the less i like it .
holmes sat in his big armchair with the weary , heavy lidded expression which veiled his keen and eager nature , while i sat opposite to him , and we listened in silence to the strange story which our visitor detailed to us .
i had seen him already that morning .
it is within a hundred yards of the hall door .
it cost me pounds , but i got my verdict .
good lord !
you must surely remember the great worthingdon bank business ,
and why in hopes ?
his cheeks were red , his brow was all crinkled with anger , and the veins stood out at his temples with passion .
a sandwich and a cup of coffee , and then off to violin land , where all is sweetness and delicacy and harmony , and there are no red headed clients to vex us with their conundrums
the singular incident made , as you may think , the deepest impression upon me , and i pondered over it and turned it every way in my mind without being able to make anything of it .
did you get anything else ?
a discovery has just been made by the parisian police said the daily telegraph which raises the veil which hung round the tragic fate of mr eduardo lucas , who met his death by violence last monday night at godolphin street , westminster .
i have not yet described to you the most singular part .
i told him the whole story , with small changes so that he could not identify the places .
i took out my revolver and laid it on the corner of the table .
but i returned at once .
pray take the basket chair .
he had even smoked there .
and yet we manage to make ourselves fairly happy , do we not , beryl ?
cried the older man , as this strange being fell rather than sat down into a chair .
it was twenty minutes , and the reds had all faded into grays before holmes and the trainer reappeared .
under these circumstances the young man was instantly arrested , and a verdict of ' wilful murder ' having been returned at the inquest on tuesday , he was on wednesday brought before the magistrates at ross , who have referred the case to the next assizes .
at the side was a second one laden with bottles and glasses , on which some members of the company were already turning their eyes .
thank you !
as it pulled up , one of the loafing men at the corner dashed forward to open the door in the hope of earning a copper , but was elbowed away by another loafer , who had rushed up with the same intention .
a whip no .
what could be better for the purpose ?
hopkins 's brow was clouded , and he sat down with an air of deep dejection .
across the centre of it was lying a little cylinder of blue gray paper .
it is most unlikely that she carries it about with her .
after an hour 's delay , the great nobleman appeared .
his fat , red face wreathed itself in smiles and his small eyes glittered as he greeted my companion .
you cannot keep them ,
there lay the end of this tangled line .
it was not very long before my friend 's prediction was fulfilled .
mr sherlock holmes
when morning broke , a scene of marvellous though savage beauty lay before them .
he started as the hall light fell upon our faces .
it was nearly two o'clock when we reached mrs cecil forrester 's .
that was comfortable and elegant , and all my suspicions rose into a fierce bitter flame when i saw that on the mantelpiece stood a copy of a full length photograph of my wife , which had been taken at my request only three months ago .
when finished , the busts were put on a table in the passage to dry , and afterwards stored .
have you a pistol , watson ?
but we must plan what we are to do about moriarty now .
i got him somewhere for the knife tinkled down on the floor .
if it is not asking too much , mr holmes .
the only duplicate which existed , so far as i knew , was that which belonged to my servant , bannister a man who has looked after my room for ten years , and whose honesty is absolutely above suspicion .
not go to mawson 's ?
as i looked from their windows at the interminable granite flecked moor rolling unbroken to the farthest horizon i could not but marvel at what could have brought this highly educated man and this beautiful woman to live in such a place .
we 'd do better without you , captain marvin ,
well , well , you did your best ,
a fixture also .
her fidelity turned in an instant to bitter hatred , and he saw that she would betray him .
the cases which come to light in the papers are , as a rule , bald enough , and vulgar enough .
i have no doubt
two thousand dollars in gold , and five in notes .
miss burnet has not been seen by any human eye since the night of the murder .
no , i do not think so .
had n't we better
just have the kindness to step in here .
you have boxed a good deal in your youth .
i was able at last to persuade my companion to take my advice , though i knew from his excited manner that there was not much hope of sleep for him .
you start me on my investigation with a very serious handicap .
the last remark was addressed to von bork himself , who after much gasping and blinking had lain quietly listening to holmes 's statement .
but now we come to a sinister fact .
among these had been drebber and stangerson and no one knew whither they had gone .
there was the case , and of course there was but one way out of it .
the light shone vividly into the opened safe , and the secretary of the embassy gazed with an absorbed interest at the rows of stuffed pigeon holes with which it was furnished .
oh , you return tomorrow ?
what could i do ?
you will not apply my precept ,
spies and thieves !
i have a few thousands to invest , d'ye see , and i think i 'll sink them in you .
a four wheeler was brought , and we all three drove back in it .
of course we searched the house from cellar to garret , but there was no trace of him .
lestrade shook his head , though it seemed to me that his manner was less absolutely assured than before .
degrees and long degrees west , and then cut the painter and let us go .
on one corner of this was stuck the stump of a red wax candle .
a very brief analysis of these four words would enable you to say with the utmost confidence that the ' learn ' and the ' maybe ' are written in the stronger hand , and the ' what ' in the weaker .
what a fatal interruption !
by no means .
is , and so on .
we were warm , as the children say , at that inn ,
i brought them because i had heard that you can read great things out of small ones .
mr josiah brown , i suppose ?
nothing had been said during our drive , but the high , thin breathing of our new companion , and the claspings and unclaspings of his hands , spoke of the nervous tension within him .
go on , miss westbury .
holmes 's cold , thin fingers closed round my wrist and led me forward down a long hall , until i dimly saw the murky fanlight over the door .
how could you possibly tell that it was the wooden legged man who came in the night ?
you can n't get past that .
then it grew louder , and suddenly there came from the window a sharp metallic snick .
we heard his voice on the stairs .
there has only been one occurrence in these offices which could call for your attention .
you have nothing else to report to us before we go into this matter ?
well , and there is the end of our little drama ,
i suppose you might say she was handsome .
that is certainly remarkable .
the man was a spaniard .
i swear it .
how 's this , watson ?
it appeared to you to be a simple case to me it seems exceedingly complex .
mrs lexington is her name a little , dark , silent person , with suspicious and sidelong eyes .
we waited in silence for a minute one of those minutes which one can never forget .
for a while he could not get his words out , but swayed his body and plucked at his hair like one who has been driven to the extreme limits of his reason .
that is all , mr holmes , and i am sure that i can rely upon your discretion and that of your friend .
take it for granted .
i have a few dates here which will give you the career of the dead man , captain peter carey .
the dog did nothing in the night time .
upon the back ?
the fire was burning brightly , and in the grate there was a mass of black , fluffy ashes , as of burned paper , while the brass box stood open and empty beside it .
someone has stood there in getting out .
an abstruse and learned specialist who finds that he has been called in for a case of measles would experience something of the annoyance which i read in my friend 's eyes .
this complicates matters ,
but what do you think of yourself spreading reports about me like that , and then crawling to me for help the moment you are in trouble ?
surely our profession , mr mac , would be a drab and sordid one if we did not sometimes set the scene so as to glorify our results .
really , mr holmes ,
now he will pretend , no doubt , that i have said anything which he may invent which will corroborate his insane suspicions .
if i could get his knowledge it might save me a long and weary hunt .
i could see nothing recorded in the shape of crime which was not commonplace and futile .
the cottage is still tenanted ,
was the blind down ?
pshaw !
no allowance is made for accidents where diplomatic interests are at stake .
yet i have told you how , on the first night here , i heard her sobbing bitterly , and since then i have more than once observed traces of tears upon her face .
he left them shortly after ten o'clock , playing cards round the dining room table , in excellent health and spirits .
i used to be home for the week ends very often , and sometimes if the ship were held back for cargo i would have a whole week at a time , and in this way i saw a deal of my sister in law , sarah .
was engraved upon it , with the date . it was just such a stick as the old fashioned family practitioner used to carry dignified , solid , and reassuring .
i was already convinced , or almost convinced , that john straker went down to the stables in the dead of the night and took out silver blaze .
certainly ,
because an illustrious client has placed her piteous case in my hands .
the other is : ' inspector stanley hopkins , lord street , brixton .
that every carriage has been carefully examined .
i was merely going on the idea that if the silver had been taken by persons who did not want it who merely took it for a blind , as it were then they would naturally be anxious to get rid of it .
and the one beyond , which shines so brightly ?
i tell you it is all as new to me as it is to dr watson , and i 'm as keen as possible to see the moor .
listen now !
we 've had one experience , as watson has no doubt told you .
he stopped suddenly and stared fixedly up over my head into the air .
all i can do is to watch the house and leave my agent , warner , on guard at the gates .
it 's an extraordinary thing ,
we had sprung into the dog cart , and holmes , after turning the horse , gave it a sharp cut with the whip , and we flew back along the road .
the latter is valueless if the stains are a few hours old .
i confess that i cannot recall any case within my experience which looked at the first glance so simple and yet which presented such difficulties .
no , he never exchanged a word with him , so far as i know .
i thought it not unlikely .
kindly summon your men , and i will try .
you can see that it was a very short bladed scissors , since the cutter had to take two snips over ' keep away .
well , this fairly beats me !
there was an old clock ticking loudly somewhere in the passage , but otherwise everything was deadly still .
only one man knew what had happened to him , and that was me , for , with my own eyes , i saw the skipper tip up his heels and put him over the rail in the middle watch of a dark night , two days before we sighted the shetland lights .
but i saw nothing .
i could only stare at her in stupid surprise .
he had prospered in india , and brought back with him a considerable sum of money , a large collection of valuable curiosities , and a staff of native servants .
you remember that you did not take your usual draught that night .
there you are ,
she was a very beautiful woman .
the very friend to whom you communicated your misgivings as to the prophet and his mission , might be one of those who would come forth at night with fire and sword to exact a terrible reparation .
one of the articles had a pencil mark at the heading , and i naturally began to run my eye through it .
he was so white with passionate earnestness that she could not but believe him .
what could it be ?
sherlock holmes leaned back in his chair with an abstracted expression and the lids drawn low over his glittering eyes .
barker drew aside the curtain , and showed that the long , diamond paned window was open to its full extent .
save in the stranger 's room , no talking is , under any circumstances , allowed , and three offences , if brought to the notice of the committee , render the talker liable to expulsion .
it was a saturday evening in may .
i remembered how he had sniffed his lips , and had no doubt that he had detected something which had given rise to the idea .
perfectly so .
we read plenty of them in the papers .
the sight of a friendly face in the great wilderness of london is a pleasant thing indeed to a lonely man .
you are not fit for further adventures tonight .
the girl sank her face into her hands .
i shall be busy this afternoon , and shall probably return to london by the evening train .
i did write it .
ames , i understand that you have often seen this very unusual mark a branded triangle inside a circle upon mr douglas 's forearm ?
i put the price well within your means .
i have no wish to make a mystery of him , to you , anyway .
i shrugged my shoulders .
is mr trelawney hope at home ?
amid a rolling cloud of dust , i caught a glimpse of a pale , agitated face a face with horror in every lineament , the mouth open , the eyes staring wildly in front .
i have spent the whole day ,
i have found out everything !
i told him also how powerless european science would be to detect it .
my dear sir , it is painful for me to discuss it , but if the money is not paid on the th , there certainly will be no marriage on the th .
he cried .
he made a slight motion to me to approach him , and instantly , as he turned his face half round to the company once more , subsided into a doddering , loose lipped senility .
yes , jem there were two barred tailed ones , and i could never tell them apart .
down the centre of baker street it had been ploughed into a brown crumbly band by the traffic , but at either side and on the heaped up edges of the foot paths it still lay as white as when it fell .
he had registered his name as coming from london , but had given no address .
what is it , then a fire ?
it is addressed in large , bold handwriting to
it is not hard to say that a man with that bearing , expression of authority , and sunbaked skin , is a soldier , is more than a private , and is not long from india .
to this , of course , i assented , and the young man withdrew .
and joseph !
here is the packet which will save alexis .
both italy and america are full of stories of his dreadful powers .
no , but i observe the second half of a return ticket in the palm of your left glove .
i shall have the others , but he first .
and how long have you been playing this trick upon us , mr holmes ?
as to my own little practice , it seems to be degenerating into an agency for recovering lost lead pencils and giving advice to young ladies from boarding schools .
steady old jim !
she recognized the drunken brute that he was , and would have nothing to do with him .
he will be silent !
but some of these days you 'll go too far , and you 'll find yourself and your friend in trouble .
it will bring you into the dock , holmes , not me .
he is in unoccupied premises under suspicious circumstances ,
i was never so struck by anything in my life .
it appears that his arrest did not take place at once , but after the return to hatherley farm .
he was clearly a confirmed hypochondriac , and i was dreamily conscious that he was pouring forth interminable trains of symptoms , and imploring information as to the composition and action of innumerable quack nostrums , some of which he bore about in a leather case in his pocket .
i find it recorded in my notebook that it was a bleak and windy day towards the end of march in the year .
he knifed another italian in the street , and then he came to the works with the police on his heels , and he was taken here .
but if you have why , then , how could any gentleman ask you to condescend to accept anything under the three figures ?
at that instant there was a clatter and a rattle in the street below .
he continually drummed his fingers on the table , gnawed his nails , and gave other signs of nervous impatience .
there is our friend dr mortimer , whom i believe to be entirely honest , and there is his wife , of whom we know nothing .
and why ?
you will show these gentlemen out , mrs hudson , and kindly send the boy with this telegram .
when father died , we were left very poor , but one day we were told that there was an advertisement in the times , inquiring for our whereabouts .
every pocket stuffed with pennies and half pennies pennies and half pennies .
no , sir ,
i disremember them ,
my health forbade me from venturing out unless the weather was exceptionally genial , and i had no friends who would call upon me and break the monotony of my daily existence .
before our prisoner had recovered his balance the door was shut and holmes standing with his back against it .
the colonel and the inspector were awaiting us in the parlor .
you have not mentioned to any of the three gentlemen whom you attend that anything is amiss ?
who shall have it ?
i loathe him with all my heart but i fear him also .
what time was that ?
you are in time to see a tragedy .
the weather has been so very warm these last few days .
no , mr holmes , she has not .
only seven were in his pocket .
then at last he broke out at me , spitting and cursing , with murder in his eyes and a great clasp knife in his hand .
it is not what we know , but what we can prove .
and yet it is such an absurd business , that i hesitated to bother you about it .
it seemed to me that there was more sorrow than anger in his rigid and contained countenance .
he burst into a hearty laugh .
you deduced it , then ?
she was a blonde , golden haired , blue eyed , and would no doubt have had the perfect complexion which goes with such colouring , had not her recent experience left her drawn and haggard .
i am sorry that it has come to this .
i wish you simply to report facts in the fullest possible manner to me , and you can leave me to do the theorizing .
bound for us , i know .
the setting sun shone full upon the passage floor , and i could see that the old , foot worn gray stones with which it was paved were firmly cemented together , and had certainly not been moved for many a long year .
i think that if you knew all that i had in this box you would ask me to pull some out instead of putting others in .
she is what we call in england a tomboy , with a strong nature , wild and free , unfettered by any sort of traditions .
so it appears .
a tall , stout official had come down the stone flagged passage , in a peaked cap and frogged jacket .
holmes shook his head sadly .
hark to that !
there 's the nugget and there 's the snake , but the wedding ring is gone .
the horse is a very gregarious creature .
she can tell us all about it .
what are you going to do now , mr holmes ?
well , really , when i consider that she has turned her back i will not say upon me , but upon so much that many have aspired to without success i can hardly explain it in any other fashion .
i wrote it rather hurriedly .
there is the man who set me in the right path ,
we laid him upon the drawing room sofa , and having dispatched the sobered toller to bear the news to his wife , i did what i could to relieve his pain .
the man was popular for he had a rough , jovial disposition which formed a mask , covering a great deal which lay behind it .
why , i have lost four pound a week .
then what are they ?
he was sitting , fully dressed , in an easy chair , with a slip of paper which looked like a map upon his knee , and his forehead sunk forward upon his hand in deep thought .
i have never heard of either .
lend me your bull 's eye , sergeant ,
someone had been hiding here , sure enough .
a client is to me a mere unit , a factor in a problem .
the cipher message begins with a large , does it not ?
it sounds plausible .
of course i should .
the cause of his death was a frightful blow upon the head , which had crushed in part of his skull .
this brutal preliminary seemed to shadow forth some strange and inexplicable horror in the background .
i was well aware that you could not do this without thinking of the mission which he undertook on behalf of the north at the time of the civil war , for i remember your expressing your passionate indignation at the way in which he was received by the more turbulent of our people .
he could not hope to frighten sir henry to death as he had done the old uncle with his bogie hound .
but there are still four cartridges in the revolver .
i tell you , gentlemen , it nearly drove me mad .
see here , on my arm , where his first blow fell .
were these men americans californians ?
perhaps you do n't quite understand mine .
holmes smiled .
each may form his own hypothesis upon the present evidence , and yours is as likely to be correct as mine .
no , no i call him a gentleman by courtesy , but he was quite a common looking person .
in this way i had got my l , s , and i .
the case is clear enough against you , and all i ask is a few details for my private curiosity .
mr thaddeus sholto is a rich man ,
you have saved an innocent man 's life , and you have prevented a very grave scandal , which would have ruined my reputation in the force .
i have oysters and a brace of grouse , with something a little choice in white wines .
would you have any objection to my running my finger along your parietal fissure ?
what do you mean ?
now he halted in the recess of the window .
then let me have the private ones .
the drop was at least twenty feet , however , and a bed of crocuses in full bloom lay beneath .
holmes had listened to his story with the utmost attention , and now he sat for some time in silent thought .
they were at the morass , and again on the path , and again near where poor heidegger met his death .
can i be of assistance ?
that 's not my horse ,
you 'll get a great welcome when you return .
hilda !
if i could have seen him then i should have killed him , for i have always been like a madman when my temper gets loose .
ferrier knew that his wealth and position would be of no avail to him .
there is just room behind the head of my bed , watson .
the execution had now been duly carried out .
silas brown , the trainer , is known to have had large bets upon the event , and he was no friend to poor straker .
again the gentle murmur .
that is how i read the matter .
permit me to give you an extract from it .
for an instant i imagined that bannister had taken the unpardonable liberty of examining my papers .
no , sir , such a man will look after himself and will look after his chums you may lay to that !
you 'll convey all that is in your mind .
i would not bring one shadow on his life , and this i know would break his noble heart .
no one was moving about the house , nor could we catch a glimpse of any faces at the windows .
eventually , in the year , the movement rather suddenly collapsed , although there have been sporadic outbreaks of the same sort since that date .
the longer i stay , the harder it will be to go .
this room is not well adapted for a cell , and mr patrick cairns occupies too large a proportion of our carpet .
holmes stirred for the first time .
i surprised you by beating upon the pavement with my stick .
how about the fireplace ?
he glanced round suspiciously at the others in the car .
was n't it natural , sir , that i should save him , and was n't it natural also that i should try to speak to him as his dead father would have done , and make him understand that he could not profit by such a deed ?
yes , that is final ,
whispered holmes .
however , if it suits you , we will retire early tonight , and perhaps things may seem more cheerful in the morning .
in this i was asked to sit , and then mr rucastle , walking up and down on the other side of the room , began to tell me a series of the funniest stories that i have ever listened to .
our visitor stretched forward a quivering hand and picked up the daily telegraph , which still lay upon holmes 's knee .
what , then , is the alternative ?
we have had some dramatic entrances and exits upon our small stage at baker street , but i cannot recollect anything more sudden and startling than the first appearance of thorneycroft huxtable , m .
he looks frowning and black like , but she has a kind o surprise upon her face .
they had just reached this point when the young man seized his two companions and dragged them down into the shadow , where they lay silent and trembling .
luke ' s .
i therefore waited for fresh material .
my well booted man lay before me .
or was it some agent who was marking up that the last day of grace had arrived .
from the windows of our little whitewashed house , which stood high upon a grassy headland , we looked down upon the whole sinister semicircle of mounts bay , that old death trap of sailing vessels , with its fringe of black cliffs and surge swept reefs on which innumerable seamen have met their end .
if you will come with me to chiswick to night , lestrade , i 'll promise to go to the italian quarter with you to morrow , and no harm will be done by the delay .
and my duties , sir ?
good , simpson !
it was droning like a harmonium with the flies and bluebottles , and the floor and walls were like a slaughter house .
is there a man or a voman in this valley vat does not know it ?
promise to do this .
you say that we go round the sun .
it ran in this way :
he is ready to go .
it was certain that i could not help with those .
in some way we became friends , until before my month was up i was as much in love as man could be .
bradshaw !
what i say is true ,
so ended my country trip , and it must be confessed that , however enjoyable , my day on the surrey border has not been much more profitable than your own .
my friend has so often astonished me in the course of our adventures that it was with a sense of exultation that i realized how completely i had astonished him .
baker street ?
no further help from tracks could be hoped for .
lucy ferrier grew up within the log house , and assisted her adopted father in all his undertakings .
i can make nothing of this mystification of scott eccles .
hardly anything .
wonderful !
but why ?
you know , watson , i do n't mind confessing to you that i have always had an idea that i would have made a highly efficient criminal .
but there must
why did cadogan west take the papers , where are the missing ones , how did he die , how came his body where it was found , how can the evil be set right ?
i was half mad when you came up with us .
they are more visible from the road ,
there were no marks , then , though the night was a wet one ?
it was late when my friend returned , and i could see , by a glance at his haggard and anxious face , that the high hopes with which he had started had not been fulfilled .
what else ?
i may have spoken too warmly , sir ,
i think that it is most probable that beddoes , pushed to desperation and believing himself to have been already betrayed , had revenged himself upon hudson , and had fled from the country with as much money as he could lay his hands on .
take your hat !
i have it from the same source that you are both an orphan and a bachelor and are residing alone in london .
make a discreet inquiry also as to any strangers in the neighbourhood .
the haze was like a curtain all round us , and there were we three in the middle of it .
it was not the first time that she had spoken to us of her husband 's trouble , to me as a doctor , to my wife as an old friend and school companion .
in three of them east ham , leicester , and liverpool there is a clear case against him , and he has actually been arrested .
this is most interesting and instructive ,
the only question is , how did he depart ?
i had reckoned upon solving the matter when once i had found the place referred to in the ritual but now i was there , and was apparently as far as ever from knowing what it was which the family had concealed with such elaborate precautions .
yes , it would have been of no use to anyone had we not done so .
you were so very obstinate ,
he dictated it .
i went round , suspecting no harm , and the next thing i knew , this young man here had the bracelets on my wrists , and as neatly snackled as ever i saw in my life .
yet the white face and set expression of the young hunter showed that in his approach to the house he had seen enough to satisfy him upon that head .
might not the nature of the injuries reveal something to my medical instincts ?
this sounds well .
we have enough on us , without the women as well .
no fresh details were to be found , however , in any of them , save that an inquest was to be held upon the following day .
all you desire is a plain statement , is it not ?
he who will come .
find an answer to all these questions , and you will have done good service for your country .
during our conversation we had not gone to the end of the path , and the alpine stock marked the place where we had stood .
this way !
he did not mean to show it , i am sure , but it was so strongly in his mind that it peeped out at every action .
and which king ?
this morning godfrey 's room was empty , his bed had never been slept in , and his things were all just as i had seen them the night before .
come , pompey !
his conversation , i remember , was about the bertillon system of measurements , and he expressed his enthusiastic admiration of the french savant .
it was the figure of a man , clad in a suit of black , who squatted down upon his hams with his forehead sunk upon the edge of the box and his two arms thrown out on each side of it .
he is of stout heart ,
she was as bright as possible at least until after the ceremony .
again and again it sounded , the whole air throbbing with it , strident , wild , and menacing .
i must go now , doctor i have my dooties , just the same as you .
if you prevaricate or trifle with me , i give you my assurance that the matter will pass out of my hands forever .
the thieves ransacked the library and got very little for their pains .
beneath it were signed the initials l .
what is it worth ?
to be left till called for . my friend tore it open and we all three read it together .
she had got a start , however , and before i could catch her , the mischief was done .
no , the may day , when last i heard .
and the note ?
the fingers which clutched me were quivering .
it is so lonely up there with only oh , my god , it is paul !
that the professor 's salary can be ascertained in several trustworthy books of reference .
and please be careful with the revolver .
if holmes 's researches were successful , she would be an heiress .
it was damp , marshy ground , as is all that district , and there were marks of many feet , both upon the path and amid the short grass which bounded it on either side .
all the way there every man i met seemed to me to be a policeman or a detective and , for all that it was a cold night , the sweat was pouring down my face before i came to the brixton road .
in his hand he held a pistol , but he thrust it into his pocket as we advanced .
he started violently and flushed to the temples .
coming on the top of such a damning series of events , it was at least a most suspicious remark .
he would not let me get a doctor .
it was an odious face crafty , vicious , malignant , with shifty , light gray eyes and white lashes .
i rose and , standing behind holmes , studied it over his shoulder .
no , it was the candle on the side table that told me .
it was already past their usual hour for bed .
i assure you , sir , that there were none .
you can call it murder .
in my heart i accused my companion of putting forward a most lame and impotent excuse to cover his failure .
the passage outside was empty .
i confess that i cannot see any possible way of reconciling all these facts .
in this way he found the place deserted .
it would be shortly after four .
we 'll sit up in my room tonight and wait until he passes .
i get a wife out of it , jones gets the credit , pray what remains for you ?
the fact is that i have no intention that you should see what the place is to which we are driving .
i interrupted , in obedience to a sign from my companion
my father has now given over his mills to me , and i am the richer man .
not do n't tell me that it is our friend sir henry !
here it is , and i 'm shutting down to morrow morning .
but this particular sample is so short that i can do nothing , and the facts which you have brought me are so indefinite that we have no basis for an investigation .
finally he discussed the matter with his fellow lodger .
a patient !
by a singular piece of good fortune , mr athelney jones , the well known member of the detective police force , happened to be at the norwood police station , and was on the ground within half an hour of the first alarm .
i suppose that mr sherlock holmes has gone out ,
do you know what is the matter with you ?
and in practice again , i observe .
it was indeed no longer the profile , but the back , which was turned towards us .
why did he try the window on the first occasion ,
i assented gladly , and we all descended together .
cried ted baldwin .
he has other cases which engage his attention .
therefore he took it from the murdered man 's pocket .
regina will bring the matter before the attention of the public .
his ignorance was as remarkable as his knowledge .
one was buttoned only in the two lower buttons out of five , and the other at the first , third , and fifth .
he held up a little note with a coat of arms upon the envelope .
this splinter of wood , which i have every reason to believe to be poisoned , was in the man 's scalp where you still see the mark this card , inscribed as you see it , was on the table and beside it lay this rather curious stone headed instrument .
mr eduardo lucas was so well known and popular that his violent and mysterious fate will arouse painful interest and intense sympathy in a widespread circle of friends .
i gave chester wilcox warning , so that when i blew his house in he and his folk were in hiding .
such , in its essentials , was the evidence of the butler .
when he finished we sat for some minutes in a stillness which was only broken by the scratching of lestrade 's pencil as he gave the finishing touches to his shorthand account .
good bye , and be brave , for if you will do what i have told you , you may rest assured that we shall soon drive away the dangers that threaten you .
i seem to have walked right into the thick of a dime novel ,
i already regretted having ever consented to take charge of it .
help was obtained , and the door forced .
its reflection was shot back in ruddy patches by the distant pools which lay amid the great grimpen mire .
when i thought of the heavy rains and looked at the gaping roof i understood how strong and immutable must be the purpose which had kept him in that inhospitable abode .
how could one man compel another to take poison ?
was last seen by his fiancee , miss violet westbury , whom he left abruptly in the fog about : that evening .
the sight of the fair young girl , as frank and wholesome as the sierra breezes , had stirred his volcanic , untamed heart to its very depths .
did you not investigate ?
then he opened a door and showed us into a large room furnished as a museum .
you have less frontal development than i should have expected ,
one last question , holmes ,
near this little table .
fire burst from its open mouth , its eyes glowed with a smouldering glare , its muzzle and hackles and dewlap were outlined in flickering flame .
i have already explained to you , however , that my career had in any case reached its crisis , and that no possible conclusion to it could be more congenial to me than this .
however , we will go back at our leisure and verify it .
i think that we have gathered all that we can .
well , you can understand it now .
the a , if you noticed , was printed somewhat after the german fashion .
in a special column put in at the last moment he read :
the murderer must have left it behind him .
i am going !
and yet the danger must still have pressed somewhat upon him for on his way to the lodge he stopped at old man shafter 's .
his words were interrupted by a sharp rat tat from the direction of the inner door .
i should be very glad of a little assistance .
we were a family of tin miners at redruth , but we sold our venture to a company , and so retired with enough to keep us .
to a child or a small woman .
but it did not lead very far .
now , then , mister ,
holmes 's card sent in to the manager ensured instant attention , and he was not long in acquiring all the information he needed .
three forty is our train , and i fancy we should be back in baker street for dinner .
i am a hop merchant myself , and as i have an income of seven or eight hundred , we found ourselves comfortably off , and took a nice eighty pound a year villa at norbury .
well , well , it 's a very strange business , and i hope that you will let me know if anything comes of your inquiries .
could this be my stern , self contained friend ?
he will live ,
i never smoke myself , so i think i should have observed it if there had been any smell of tobacco .
i am sorry ,
he chanced to be at his hall door .
i have not yet told you the height of his villainy ,
send three men on , to arrive ten to morrow morning .
what about him ?
no , i know no one in these parts .
it was a nice equipment for a respectable citizen to carry through the dim , fog draped streets .
we can tell the tale to you while we await them .
but i never knew him do anything yet without a very good reason ,
then the footsteps continued backward and forward , backward and forward , within a few yards of us .
a short passage , bare planked and dusty , led to the kitchen and offices .
i am mr holmes ,
good bye .
no , never .
so long as we did not squeeze them too dry , they would stay on under our power .
now for a moment i will ask leave to remove my own insignificant personality and to describe events which occurred before we arrived upon the scene by the light of knowledge which came to us afterwards .
an instant later the explosion occurred , though hudson thought it was caused by the misdirected bullet of one of the convicts rather than the mate 's match .
there are several points in this problem which i have not been able to explain to you yet .
bring him into the sitting room .
holmes sprang from his chair .
if you would care to hear the facts
my footprint , i presume ?
in a morass , watson ?
then i was surer than ever that it was just paper talk for i found no harm in the society , but a deal of good .
the fact is that i could not believe it possible that the most remarkable horse in england could long remain concealed , especially in so sparsely inhabited a place as the north of dartmoor .
if that were so , what had become of my father ?
it would have been the same in any case , for providence would never have allowed his guilty hand to pick out anything but the poison .
the prisoner had raised himself with some difficulty upon the sofa and was staring with a strange mixture of amazement and hatred at his captor .
there was a thrill in the doctor 's voice which showed that he was himself deeply moved by that which he told us .
the hound had kept upon the grassy border while the baronet had run down the path , so that no track but the man 's was visible .
he was a very shy man , mr holmes .
finally he took the bell rope in his hand and gave it a brisk tug .
witness : i should prefer not to answer .
in five minutes he died .
but if the affair were in my hands i should have had a body of police in jacobson 's yard , and arrested them when they came down .
from that time on all was plain .
and when ?
at last there came a warning to him that the bloodhounds were on his track once more , and he cleared only just in time for england .
he continued to walk up and down the room with his head sunk on his chest and his brows drawn down , as was his habit when lost in thought .
phelps thrust away the precious document into the innermost pocket of his coat .
the more bizarre a thing is the less mysterious it proves to be .
you know i like to work the detail of my cases out .
you get to your point , i admit but you have such a deuced round the corner way of doing it .
it depends on the player ,
we had , indeed , reached a questionable and forbidding neighborhood .
my fears were soon appeased , however .
i have had no time for bite or sup for eight and forty hours .
and the papers were on your table ?
i am afraid , rance , that you will never rise in the force .
mr ferguson and i will take you up to see the machine .
now i think that we are all ready .
he was alone and took a single third class ticket .
she never came back .
but i will hold it back for the shortest time possible .
but there was something in the ice cold reasoning of holmes which made it impossible to shrink from any adventure which he might recommend .
well , well ,
the rescuing party were speedily able to convince the two castaways that their appearance was no delusion .
you shut up the windows and doors the night before .
the last sentences of the description say :
but did she tell you who it vas ?
did he not advertise ?
it 's easy to see a man who is master of his own house .
from the shores of the mississippi to the western slopes of the rocky mountains they had struggled on with a constancy almost unparalleled in history .
by encouraging the intimacy he made it certain that sir henry would frequently come to merripit house and that he would sooner or later get the opportunity which he desired .
still kneeling upon the floor he bent forward and threw all his weight and strength upon some lever , with the result that there came a long , whirling , grinding noise , ending once more in a powerful click .
holmes rose , motioning us to remain seated .
yes , it is very short , but i made a copy of it , and here it is .
morstan had sprung out of his chair in a paroxysm of anger , when he suddenly pressed his hand to his side , his face turned a dusky hue , and he fell backwards , cutting his head against the corner of the treasure chest .
mr woodley went home in a cart .
she spoke a few words in a foreign tongue in a tone as though asking a question , and when my companion answered in a gruff monosyllable she gave such a start that the lamp nearly fell from her hand .
we can very easily verify it .
meanwhile , i can inform you that no spying upon me can in any way help mr godfrey staunton , and i am convinced that the best service you can do to that gentleman is to return at once to london and to report to your employer that you are unable to trace him .
my dear fellow , you know my methods .
then he clambered up to the rim of the hollow , and crawled about among the ferns and bushes .
you must let me speak ,
but the other end is not frayed .
no , i am descending .
i was staggered , sir i did not know what to do .
visited twenty three hotels as directed , but sorry , to report unable to trace cut sheet of times .
and so it was arranged .
i leave it to your judgment whether it was possible for the thief to have come up here without disturbing us .
i thought , however , that i had cast off every trace of it .
i may want your help , and so may he .
our visitor gave a rather shamefaced laugh .
i feared to refer them to you , however , as i knew that you had an inquiry on hand and that you disliked the intrusion of other matters .
he paced restlessly about our sitting room in a fever of suppressed energy , biting his nails , tapping the furniture , and chafing against inaction .
a weary way from here .
of course , you will say : ' why not take police precautions against him ?
he clenched his thin hands in a paroxysm of conviction i know it 's all wrong .
this track , as you perceive , was made by a rider who was going from the direction of the school .
it 's a sound they have on the moor .
and what then ?
the money which my mother had left was enough for all our wants , and there seemed to be no obstacle to our happiness .
in the country there was draining and hedging , planting and clearing , until the next summer saw the whole country golden with the wheat crop .
that was my poor uncle 's idea .
you will never have cause to regret it .
then his finger tightened on the trigger .
he did not observe any .
in the meantime i wish you both good morning .
the inspector stared about him in bewilderment .
she had some reason to be disgusted with me now , and the gap between us began to be wider and wider .
it just happened , however , that this hour coincided with blessington 's constitutional , which seems to show that they were not very well acquainted with his daily routine .
he had caught her meddling , i suspect , and given her a bit of his mind , and that was the start of it .
i do not myself know where he lived , or how .
now , jack , is there anything you would like ?
that 's no good .
never was there such a single minded enthusiast as he !
sir charles had evidently stood there for five or ten minutes .
he spoke unconcernedly , but his small light eyes glanced incessantly from the girl to me .
did you ask her why she hurried away that night ?
the question was hardly out of my mouth , and holmes had not yet opened his lips to reply , when we heard a heavy footfall in the passage and a tap at the door .
here on the moor we are homely folk and do not wait for formal introductions .
i heard there was always work for a willing man .
a very delicate blade devised for very delicate work .
mcmurdo sprang to his feet and half drew his revolver but his arm stopped midway as he became conscious that two winchester rifles were levelled at his head .
springing forward he drew the bolt and threw the door open .
i tried to look out of the windows to see something of where we were , but they were made of frosted glass , and i could make out nothing save the occasional bright blur of a passing light .
i thought it was wednesday .
well , i refuse to answer .
ah , watson , you have just come at the right time .
i fail to see how you could have done more .
thank you ,
i have a respect for you , but if you were alone in this business i 'd think twice before i put my head into such a hornet 's nest .
exactly ,
you are very quick at observing .
we had a doctor in this morning .
what about your government and all this treatment ?
ah , the conqueror , perhaps ?
you have indeed done some solid work while i have been sitting spinning theories with my friend !
he was morbidly nervous of fire , and always kept this beside him , so that he might escape by the window in case the stairs were burning .
the doctor flushed with anger .
she cried .
sometimes it is some surer and subtler means .
the promise of adventure had always a fascination for me , and i was complimented by the words of holmes and by the eagerness with which the baronet hailed me as a companion .
in that case we should have to commence our investigation from a fresh basis altogether .
i will be with you again in half an hour .
some people would have waited until their advertisements were answered , or until parties came forward and volunteered information .
i wonder he dares ,
it may be that in the business of which i am now about to write the part which my friend played is not sufficiently accentuated and yet the whole train of circumstances is so remarkable that i cannot bring myself to omit it entirely from this series .
the colonel whistled .
that is my room at the end of the stairs , and my son 's is the one beyond it .
does that strike you as likely ?
he had received a consignment of books upon philology and was settling down to develop this thesis when suddenly , to my sorrow and to his unfeigned delight , we found ourselves , even in that land of dreams , plunged into a problem at our very doors which was more intense , more engrossing , and infinitely more mysterious than any of those which had driven us from london .
it is part of the everyday routine of your life .
your father has , if i remember right , been dead many years .
i have been ordained ,
private affliction also is the lot of every man but the two coming together , and in so frightful a form , have been enough to shake my very soul .
five little livid spots , the marks of four fingers and a thumb , were printed upon the white wrist .
there was something strangely incongruous in this oriental figure framed in the commonplace door way of a third rate suburban dwelling house .
he chuckled to himself and rubbed his long , nervous hands together .
i have never seen any human being who appeared to be in such a pitiable fright , for his teeth were visibly chattering , and he was shaking in every limb .
we have marked you down as a willing man , and we believe that you will do good work in these parts .
a lady yesterday entered your study .
i have a confused memory , too , of having been lifted and conveyed somewhere .
pals of the dook , i suppose ?
the train had already begun to move as holmes spoke .
i tell you they were relatives .
it is only by remembering certain complex landmarks that i am able to do it .
this here is the son of elder drebber , and i 'm joseph stangerson , who travelled with you in the desert when the lord stretched out his hand and gathered you into the true fold .
north by ten and by ten , east by five and by five , south by two and by two , west by one and by one , and so under .
i cast my firelock between his legs as he raced past , and he rolled twice over like a shot rabbit .
the strange thing is that they should have lived so thickly on what must always have been most unfruitful soil .
possibly , sherlock .
tell me all , mr holmes .
well , we shall see .
it was of the first importance , however , that we should be able to prove who placed it there .
she was very independent in little matters like that .
he was , indeed , a weird figure as he turned his white mane and his glowing eyes towards us .
cried the lady , sweeping into the room with a proud , set face .
i helped him to do it !
all day the wind had screamed and the rain had beaten against the windows , so that even here in the heart of great , hand made london we were forced to raise our minds for the instant from the routine of life and to recognise the presence of those great elemental forces which shriek at mankind through the bars of his civilisation , like untamed beasts in a cage .
hardly that , watson .
one morning after a sleepless night she determined to see him , possibly for the last time , and make one strong endeavour to draw him from those evil influences which were sucking him down .
caught cold , watson ?
no , ettie , i can n't leave here .
some , however , have already gained publicity through the papers , and others have not offered a field for those peculiar qualities which my friend possessed in so high a degree , and which it is the object of these papers to illustrate .
i have been far too generous with you in money matters .
he muttered .
may i ask whether you were seated at the breakfast table so that you could see out of the window ?
what are you doing there ?
after a long and weary journey , we alighted at a small station some miles from chatham .
i must congratulate you on coming into the possession , though in rather a tragic manner of a relic which is of great intrinsic value , but of even greater importance as an historical curiosity .
it was one of those dramatic moments for which my friend existed .
ferrier crept into the hall and listened intently .
my friend explained .
i will tell you the true solution of the matter .
i laughed at the quaint message but holmes showed unwonted seriousness .
what 's this , then ?
he sank his face into his thin , white hands
their master lay upon his face in the centre of the room .
i had driven some distance when i put my hand into the pocket in which i usually kept lucy 's ring , and found that it was not there .
holmes swung it slowly round , and peered keenly at the house , and at the great rubbish heaps which cumbered the grounds .
stooping with one of his quick feline pounces , he placed the slipper upon the blood mark on the sill .
again the professor burst into high keyed laughter .
i deceived everybody , therefore , yourself included , and i came down secretly when i was supposed to be in london .
i will tell you the meaning of it ,
are n't you ?
but it is a question of getting details .
never in my life have i seen such a sight .
exactly , my dear watson .
in an experience of women which extends over many nations and three separate continents , i have never looked upon a face which gave a clearer promise of a refined and sensitive nature .
he 's quicker at climbing down holes than i am .
from my small medical shelf i took down the medical directory and turned up the name .
yes , sir '
a few minutes later our driver pulled up at a neat little red brick villa with overhanging eaves which stood by the road .
our search is narrowed down to standardized books which anyone may be supposed to possess .
those , i think , were the main points of my analysis .
looking over his shoulder , i was equally astonished .
i should be very glad now to go upstairs ,
my companion flushed up with pleasure at my words , and the earnest way in which i uttered them .
holmes laid his hand upon my arm .
sherlock holmes sprang from his chair with an exclamation of delight .
i ejaculated .
he will come to london with us .
exactly .
no , he did not .
to think that the same petticoats should come between two of my boys !
go about your business !
he got himself into a fog recently over a forgery case , and that was what brought him here .
i imagined what my feelings would be if i had to return to you and to confess that some misfortune had occurred through my disregard for your instructions .
is dr becher a german , very thin , with a long , sharp nose ?
so long , then !
as the weeks went by , my interest in him and my curiosity as to his aims in life , gradually deepened and increased .
i 've not had my ' pology , said he sulkily , glancing in my direction .
a footpath led across to the lonely cottage .
one would suspect the one at whose head the master threw a decanter .
a thing like a cleaver ,
it was neville st .
this is my friend and colleague , dr watson , who is occasionally good enough to help me in my cases .
did you go to blackheath ?
we may take it , therefore , that the letter was composed by an educated man who wished to pose as an uneducated one , and his effort to conceal his own writing suggests that that writing might be known , or come to be known , by you .
if britain were driven into war with one confederacy , it would assure the supremacy of the other confederacy , whether they joined in the war or not .
if you heard him talk you would not doubt it .
on this strip of grass ?
i have ample evidence that you are being dogged in london , and amid the millions of this great city it is difficult to discover who these people are or what their object can be .
we are both prepared to swear that no one could have entered the room during the night .
it is very warm .
we all followed him into the housekeeper 's room , which stood upon the left hand side of the passage .
presently maybe about two or a little after i thought i would take a look round and see that all was right down the brixton road .
when the trap pulled up on the grass grown drive in front of the blotched and weather stained door , i had doubts as to my wisdom in visiting a man whom i knew so slightly .
i very well remember the sensation which was caused by the disappearance of captain morstan .
holmes had brought up a long thin cane , and this he placed upon the bed beside him .
it is all patent and above board .
but , of the three , he is perhaps the least unlikely .
ah , yes the so called porlock is a link in the chain some little way from its great attachment .
it was altogether too much for me , and i could make no sense of it .
there is no mystery about it at all .
there he goes ,
during the first week or so we had no callers , and i had begun to think that my companion was as friendless a man as i was myself .
you beckoned him to come down .
mcmurdo thought long and deeply over the commission which had been so suddenly placed in his hands .
you ought to know where she is .
you never tire of the moor .
but now your thoughts went back to beecher , and you looked hard across as if you were studying the character in his features .
i have already offered a reward of pounds .
his eyes darted again from my face to holmes ' s did you hear anything else besides a cry ?
i would only ask this : what do you imagine that this poor fellow meant by his last words : ' the professor it was she ' ?
the murderer has written it with his or her own blood .
when i saw him that afternoon so enwrapped in the music at st .
he continued , glancing out of the window .
i knew that the facts were true , but could i help to make a jury of countrymen believe so fantastic a story ?
that was how he came to leave his club , and some of his darts too , as he tells me , which i dare say helped to put you on our track though how you kept on it is more than i can tell .
they took tickets for new brighton .
but there was no moving prendergast and those who were with him .
there was nothing in the office but a couple of wooden chairs and a deal table , behind which sat a small man with a head that was even redder than mine .
sir charles baskerville was in the habit every night before going to bed of walking down the famous yew alley of baskerville hall .
but i need not have been in such a hurry , as it turned out for there was nothing immediate that i could do .
have you any reason to suspect any one of them more than the others ?
it is not too much to say that once or twice , as in that business of the sholto murder and the agra treasure , he has been more nearly correct than the official force .
nothing serious , my dear watson , or i should certainly ask for your assistance .
how many had i ?
this he opened and took out a mass of documents , which we went over together .
it is a shocking habit , destructive to the logical faculty .
then these are your instructions , and i beg , my dear watson , that you will obey them to the letter , for you are now playing a double handed game with me against the cleverest rogue and the most powerful syndicate of criminals in europe .
she spoke in a low , eager voice , with a curious lisp in her utterance .
our visitor sank into an armchair and looked from one to the other of us with questioning eyes .
i 'll fill the vacant peg then .
dark nights are unpleasant ,
it was quite certain that he had foreseen his fate , and that it had caused him the utmost horror .
and you might add of the attempted murder of one sherlock holmes ,
they appear to be much as other footmarks .
well , if our conjecture is correct and the girl 's name is or was sophy kratides , we should have no difficulty in tracing her .
only a week , sir ? he cried , in a despairing voice .
that will await him when he enters port ,
several small punts and skiffs were lying about in the water and on the edge of the wharf .
i looked at the round , well defined muddy discs .
any known danger he could face with a firm lip , but this suspense was unnerving .
it is a swamp adder !
i 'll take your advice .
do you tell me that that angel , is to be tied to roaring jack woodley for life ?
i assure you it is just as hateful to me to fail in a case as it can be to you to blunder over a commission .
he was a fine creature , this man of the old english soil simple , straight , and gentle , with his great , earnest blue eyes and broad , comely face .
we were sure that our enemies would be behind us like our own shadows .
the paper was covered with the tracings of the foot marks of some small animal .
this was in .
but a very serious one to me ,
i had begun to take comfort too soon , however yesterday morning the blow fell in the very shape in which it had come upon my father .
exactly !
then he rushed down the stair , out through the open window , threw himself upon his face on the lawn , sprang up and into the room once more , all with the energy of the hunter who is at the very heels of his quarry .
where does the window of that look out to ? he stepped across the bedroom , pushed open the door , and glanced round the other chamber .
i suppose that by saturday all might be ready ?
you fill me with interest , i perceive that the ground has been trampled up a good deal .
it was clear that there was already an understanding between them and that they had met by appointment .
westaway was the name of the founder of the business , but it is really managed by miss stoper .
yes , stand by the door .
holmes held up a sovereign .
i should not be surprised if this were an answer to my question .
i do not think so ,
but the moor with its mysteries and its strange inhabitants remains as inscrutable as ever .
at the time that i wrote this letter to sir charles i had learned that there was a prospect of my regaining my freedom if certain expenses could be met .
you remember that last night , when i came through that door , i begged and prayed you for mercy , and you laughed in my face as you are trying to laugh now , only your coward heart cannot keep your lips from twitching .
it brought me to the very threshold of the old door .
the conviction that the crime is a very peculiar one .
he can n't object to my worldly position , so it must be myself that he has this down on .
it was close upon twelve before i heard the sharp sound of his latch key .
all right , john we shall not need you .
late at night there came a jailer with a straw bundle for their bedding , out of which he extracted two bottles of whisky , some glasses , and a pack of cards .
then i say , ' thank god , ' too ,
these hieroglyphics have evidently a meaning .
i cut myself off from my race in order to wed him , but never once while he lived did i for an instant regret it .
i have had no answer , and i very much fear that i must have omitted to put my name at the end .
for two days i watched the place , but the door was never left open .
you would n't think there was anyone living at this time of day who had such a hatred of napoleon the first that he would break any image of him that he could see .
if we went round the moon it would not make a pennyworth of difference to me or to my work .
we were shown in , and after a long wait were at last admitted into the consulting room , where we found the doctor seated behind his table .
he thinks of nothing else save when , as an intellectual exercise , he unbends if i call upon him and ask him to advise me on one of my little problems but jupiter is descending to day .
in the meantime , remember that now and for ever you are of our religion .
may i offer you a glass before your journey ?
i wondered what i should do myself if i were in his shoes .
well , i do n't know now whether it was pure devilry on the part of this woman , or whether she thought that she could turn me against my wife by encouraging her to misbehave .
he opened the door , and we stepped into the hall .
prendergast was like a raging devil , and he picked the soldiers up as if they had been children and threw them overboard alive or dead .
the man was a primitive savage from the backwoods of san pedro , and this was his fetish .
in deference to my promise , and much against my will , i consented to leave him there for three days , under the charge of mrs hayes , since it was evident that it was impossible to inform the police where he was without telling them also who was the murderer , and i could not see how that murderer could be punished without ruin to my unfortunate james .
for the bodymaster of a lodge of freemen to give to a stranger brother .
i had no idea that he was in front of me .
you hound , ' he cried , shaking his stick at him ' i 'll teach you to insult an honest girl !
only that it is a remarkable cow which walks , canters , and gallops .
i have not yet seen the vestige of a clue .
lower burke street proved to be a line of fine houses lying in the vague borderland between notting hill and kensington .
he entered it , and his hansom drove away .
i was at once convinced from what you had told me that the latter was your son .
i 'm too ill to think .
but if mr phelps is correct in stating that there is no hiding place either in the room or the corridors , then the person must have come from outside .
how could you expect so small and weak a man as this black fellow to overpower mr sholto and hold him while you were climbing the rope ?
you understand me ?
there was really nothing wanting .
the wretch sank into a chair , paralyzed at the sight of my revolver .
he peered at me with great curiosity in his puckered eyes .
that he could have gone on after receiving such an injury said much for the vitality and courage of the man .
i exclaimed , turning to my companion .
with five volumes you could just fill that gap on that second shelf .
he sat in the armchair with the light shining upon his broad bald head , while he puffed sedately at his cigar .
holmes for a second time held out his hand to the sailor .
he is off duty now .
in the italian quarter ?
hurry on !
the swiss youth was never found again , and there can be no doubt that he was one of the numerous agents whom moriarty kept in his employ .
absolute and complete silence before , during , and after ?
as i entered , however , my fears were set at rest , for it was the acrid fumes of strong coarse tobacco which took me by the throat and set me coughing .
where is the letter ?
well , it is just as i have been telling you , mr sherlock holmes ,
do n't be mealy mouthed about it .
he 'd have made a grand meenister with his thin face and gray hair and solemn like way of talking .
ah , that quite settles it ,
look at that clipping .
mcmurdo whispered to his neighbour .
i exclaimed .
from the pressure of holmes 's shoulder against mine , i knew that he was sharing my observations .
then i thought of the whistle .
the duke and mr wilder are in the study .
there can be no doubt about the matter .
only captain marvin here and my employers knew that .
there 's a half sovereign for you ,
he cried , with a merry laugh .
he must take us as he finds us .
of course .
thank you , i would really rather not .
but the man had hereditary tendencies of the most diabolical kind .
hands clapped him on the back , and the hood was plucked from his head .
i was confined to my room , terrorized by the most horrible threats , cruelly ill used to break my spirit see this stab on my shoulder and the bruises from end to end of my arms and a gag was thrust into my mouth on the one occasion when i tried to call from the window .
i was thinking the same thing ,
i put down the candle and jumped for a hammer that i 'd left on the mantel .
in reply to her inquiries , he said that he could not sleep on account of his anxiety about the horses , and that he intended to walk down to the stables to see that all was well .
if his motives were innocent , why does he not explain them ?
macdonald and white mason stared in amazement at their celebrated colleague .
are not of very great importance , for , of course , the information which they represent has been sent off long ago to the german government .
do you go out much in society ?
it is surely rather fanciful .
well , that would be too much to say .
the chances are that she would be as averse to its being seen by mr godfrey norton , as our client is to its coming to the eyes of his princess .
some sixty members assembled at vermissa but that by no means represented the full strength of the organization , for there were several other lodges in the valley , and others across the mountains on each side , who exchanged members when any serious business was afoot , so that a crime might be done by men who were strangers to the locality .
old acton has some claim on half cunningham 's estate , and the lawyers have been at it with both hands .
that night he waited there .
my friend 's temper had not improved since he had been deprived of the congenial surroundings of baker street .
the matter is a perfectly trivial one
red jacket .
now , for some space the revellers stood agape , unable to understand all that had been done in such haste .
none such appeared , however .
i was on that hill .
it was mere chance that he was within earshot .
he nearly fainted at the breakfast table when he opened it , and from that day he sickened to his death .
was your sister dressed ?
of course he would .
by the charming society whose leader lies in the reichenbach fall .
i assure you that it has not detracted in the tiniest iota from your appearance .
well , i dare say he knows one or two more .
and now i must fly to my dear boy to apologise to him for the wrong which i have done him .
now , a real german invariably prints in the latin character , so that we may safely say that this was not written by one , but by a clumsy imitator who overdid his part .
simon , second son of the duke of balmoral , and miss hatty doran , the only daughter of aloysius doran .
i have been trying some experiments after you left us this afternoon , and i find that no noise which macdonald can make in the study can penetrate to me in the pantry when the doors are all shut .
well , in the next place , you will remember that this idea of someone moving in the garden , which took our attention for a moment from the real cause of the tragedy , emanated from him .
quite so .
lady eva is not a wealthy woman .
the sun was beginning to sink behind the stables of mapleton , and the long , sloping plain in front of us was tinged with gold , deepening into rich , ruddy browns where the faded ferns and brambles caught the evening light .
we have come to seek a refuge from the violent man and from the godless , even though it be the heart of the desert .
yes , yes , you had better go .
it was .
this note i had this morning marks my zero point , i fancy .
it was terrible and amazing to see such a woman so convulsed with joy at such a sight .
grotesquely improbable , no doubt , but still just conceivable ?
not to me , but to my friend sherlock holmes .
i turned it over in my mind .
are you already a member of the ancient order of freemen ?
according to my notion he dropped it while stooping over drebber 's body , and did not miss it at the time .
oh , yes , i am not joking ,
thank you .
they are a most unpleasant couple , but fortunately i spend most of my time in the nursery and my own room , which are next to each other in one corner of the building .
are you mr hall pycroft ?
the treasure must afterwards be handed over to the authorities until after the official investigation .
we passed along it and holmes very gently opened a door upon the right hand side .
what does the law of england care for the rivers of blood shed years ago in san pedro , or for the shipload of treasure which this man has stolen ?
it never went better in its life .
my first movement watson ,
if there are worse devils down yonder than some we could name , it 's more than i 'd expect .
nothing has been touched up to now ,
we shall be at the copper beeches by seven o'clock , my friend and i .
folk are gettin ' out of hand in these parts .
on the other hand , it was clearly shown by the united and unfaltering evidence of six citizens , including that high municipal official , councillor mcginty , that the men had been at a card party at the union house until an hour very much later than the commission of the outrage .
i would send you a wire .
besides , what use was my hair to me ?
bhurtee was relieved by neill next day , but the rebels took me away with them in their retreat , and it was many a long year before ever i saw a white face again .
also , by the way , that it is extremely improbable that he has gas laid on in his house .
baynes flushed with pleasure .
sitting in the billiard room i more than once heard the sound of voices raised , and i had a pretty good idea what the point was which was under discussion .
his hopes and his ambitions were all crumbling about him .
i was then beginning to be able to form an opinion as to what had occurred .
where to ?
i fear there is not very much , ' i answered ' i might suggest that you have gone about in fear of some personal attack within the last twelvemonth .
the windows are all dark ,
on the face of it , it would appear to be a case of a very exceptional nature .
but just there , watson , i fancy that it could be done .
i had not thought of that .
well , to come to an end of the matter , mr holmes , and not to abuse your patience , there came a night when he made one of those drunken sallies from which he never came back .
we all sprang out with the exception of holmes , who continued to lean back with his eyes fixed upon the sky in front of him , entirely absorbed in his own thoughts .
i do not see that you have any grievance against this extraordinary league .
one house , and only one , riveted my attention .
we will raise as much as we can in money , and let the rest go .
the prisoner turned with the reckless air of a man who abandons himself to his destiny .
i observe that she was unmarried at the time .
there were no carpets and no signs of any furniture above the ground floor , while the plaster was peeling off the walls , and the damp was breaking through in green , unhealthy blotches .
mr holmes , this joking is very ill timed .
these are young mccarthy 's feet .
now for the events at lachine between nine and ten on the evening of last monday .
i accepted stapleton 's invitation , and we turned together down the path .
it is not practical .
i might not have gone but for you , and so have missed the finest study i ever came across : a study in scarlet , eh ?
well , mr holmes , i supped there , as the vicar has said , and my elder brother george proposed a game of whist afterwards .
anyway , she took a house just two streets off and let lodgings to sailors .
the shadow has departed and will not return .
he opened the outer door , and then as a dark figure slipped past him he closed and fastened it .
because of your knowledge of eastern diseases .
do you know the names ?
you shall hear me .
i have a window open ,
there was the original problem : that at least was pretty clear now .
it is , i am afraid , not very encouraging to his supporters , though there are one or two points in it which are suggestive .
an extraordinary change had come over his face .
certainly , sir ,
i only wish that you could come with me , watson , but i fear that it will n't do .
i ran to her and threw my arms round her , but at that moment her knees seemed to give way and she fell to the ground .
now , mr hilton cubitt , please continue your most interesting statement .
come in ,
someone in a novel , was he not ?
miss morstan has done me the honor to accept me as a husband in prospective .
kratides .
of the woman nothing was ever heard , and the probability is that she got away out of england and carried herself and the memory of her crime to some land beyond the seas .
a sick man is but a child , and so i will treat you .
did you lose your boat through it ?
and we 'll learn from birdy edwards himself where he got his news if we have to cut his heart out first .
cried the colonel , with his coffee cup in mid air .
i did n't go for to do it .
i had a hard and dangerous game to play .
it is bad enough that one of us should have been in its shadow , ' he said .
really !
trying to solve the problem as to whether it is possible to get comfortable rooms at a reasonable price .
carnaway was about his house at night , and he shot him .
how often have i said to you that when you have eliminated the impossible whatever remains , however improbable , must be the truth ?
you are engaged ,
i knew that he still had the diary , for when i was in siberia i had a letter from him once , reproaching me and quoting some passages from its pages .
robert street .
but there was no getting out of it .
his name is vincent spaulding , and he 's not such a youth , either .
what news have you brought me ?
d'ye think i 'm ashamed of my own name ?
there was her statement , watson , and to me , as you can imagine , it was like a light on a dark night .
i looked into her eyes and i read it all there .
it was magnificent ,
at two o'clock he bade me good day , complimented me upon the amount that i had written , and locked the door of the office after me .
yesterday evening i went to esher to fulfil this engagement .
for nearly two hours we drove without my having the least clue as to where we were going .
she dropped her bouquet as we went towards the vestry .
you may not be aware that i have royal blood in my veins .
mr douglas gave it up .
the screw was a pound a week rise , and the duties just about the same as at coxon 's .
could there be a better hiding place ?
in short , that she had become suddenly deranged ?
eight pounds a month .
what about archie swindon ?
nature had given him a pendulous lip , and a too visible line of yellow and irregular teeth , which he strove feebly to conceal by constantly passing his hand over the lower part of his face .
october , .
only at the third did our visit prove abortive .
i had rather that nancy and my old pals should think of harry wood as having died with a straight back , than see him living and crawling with a stick like a chimpanzee .
this poor wretch was dressed in your clothes .
oh , yes , i should like a little sunshine .
he would hardly reply to my questions , and busied himself all evening in an abstruse chemical analysis which involved much heating of retorts and distilling of vapors , ending at last in a smell which fairly drove me out of the apartment .
we then ascended to the room again , when , by upsetting the cigarette box , i obtained a very excellent view of the floor , and was able to see quite clearly , from the traces upon the cigarette ash , that the prisoner had in our absence come out from her retreat .
and pressure to the square inch suggested some possible relation to a submarine .
under this i thrust the end of the poker and twisted it outward as a lever .
it is his cap .
is n't it ?
would you murder me ?
it was a small pyramid of black , putty like stuff , exactly like the one upon the table of the study .
, there is now another vacancy open which entitles a member of the league to a salary of pounds a week for purely nominal services .
i had a right to her .
how could you know anything of the matter ?
then i shall call upon you in a day , or in two days , with news as to the box and the papers .
shocking , watson , shocking !
he shall say what is to be done with you .
he was a remarkable looking man , tall , handsome , with a square black beard and pale , distinguished features .
for myself , i confess that i had now conceived the utmost horror of the man , not only for this cold blooded business in which he had been concerned , but even more for the somewhat flippant and careless way in which he narrated it .
you must look at it this way : what i know is unofficial , what he knows is official .
and perhaps he hardly knows his own strength .
well , if there were an outsider , he may be traced and taken .
barclay 's remarks were subdued and abrupt , so that none of them were audible to the listeners .
murder !
i would ask you , then , when you joined the freeman 's society in chicago and swore vows of charity and fidelity , did ever it cross your mind that you might find it would lead you to crime ?
i suppose five foot six would be about it .
i sha n't forget the face at the carriage window as i led her away .
if their evidence is good , then we are fortunate enough to be able to block the west , and also to be able to say that the fugitives did not use the road at all .
you are not angry with me ?
it is a more probable supposition than murder .
for i dabble with poisons a good deal .
eleven , and the more stately tread of the landlady passed my door , bound for the same destination .
i think it is very probable .
you have been in new zealand .
the carriage stopped , the doctor alighted , walked swiftly back to where i had also halted , and told me in an excellent sardonic fashion that he feared the road was narrow , and that he hoped his carriage did not impede the passage of my bicycle .
maybe they are wronged and have no other way to help themselves .
i left sir henry behind , therefore , not without some prickings of conscience , and drove off upon my new quest .
my friend would stay some little time at the fall , he said , and would then walk slowly over the hill to rosenlaui , where i was to rejoin him in the evening .
i had no great difficulty in finding where sholto lived , and i set to work to discover whether he had realized the treasure , or if he still had it .
my head buzzed , and i could hardly sit still in my chair .
at the last instant came this terrible catastrophe .
he whispered , jerking his thumb over his shoulder
very good .
i have heard something of the kind .
for the first time the old man stirred .
well , mr douglas did not appear .
if not , there is no harm done .
i will see him there .
why did you drive me to such extremities ?
have you made anything out of the tangle ?
as we drove up , we found the railings in front of the house lined by a curious crowd .
what have i to do with sundials and papers ?
continued holmes ,
that 's what i said .
listen to this : ' lost , on the th inst .
i do n't know that i have anything else to tell you .
the goose , sir !
there will be few richer young ladies in england .
tangey , the commissionnaire , has been shadowed .
within a minute or so .
just sit me up a little , so as i can speak easy .
it is true that if any sudden danger had threatened him i was too far away to be of use , and yet i am sure that you will agree with me that the position was very difficult , and that there was nothing more which i could do .
pompey is the pride of the local draghounds no very great flier , as his build will show , but a staunch hound on a scent .
the ashes of a fire were heaped in a rude grate .
that is all that i can say .
miss cushing was sitting in the front room , into which we were ushered .
here is a rough chart of the place .
he smiled in silence at his colleagues .
it was already dusk , and the lamps were just being lighted as we paced up and down in front of briony lodge , waiting for the coming of its occupant .
this gentleman was not one of your wife 's friends ?
holmes was certainly not a difficult man to live with .
a mole could trace it , and there it vanishes among the reeds .
are you content to wait ?
she is to be married in a fortnight to the earl of dovercourt .
if you will come round once more to my rooms at six o clock to morrow , i think i shall be able to show you that even now you have not grasped the entire meaning of this business , which presents some features which make it absolutely original in the history of crime .
you can hardly find a flaw in the case which can now be presented against him , and all further investigation has served to strengthen it .
the name of the murdered man linked the one event with the other .
what were they ?
he has a passion also for indian animals , which are sent over to him by a correspondent , and he has at this moment a cheetah and a baboon , which wander freely over his grounds and are feared by the villagers almost as much as their master .
there was no trace of love between us any longer .
here we have it so far as they could give it .
i do not know what to make of it .
my friend repeated thoughtfully .
why , holmes , you had only two yesterday .
he gathered her into his arms and kissed away her fears and doubts .
for a charming week we wandered up the valley of the rhone , and then , branching off at leuk , we made our way over the gemmi pass , still deep in snow , and so , by way of interlaken , to meiringen .
if they had come from pondicherry in a steamer they would have arrived almost as soon as their letter .
i had sat for about twenty minutes turning the thing over in my mind and trying to find some possible explanation .
it is accessible from the top of an outhouse .
moriarty had not been alone .
two nights later they met outside the town , all three armed , and one of them carrying a sack stuffed with the powder which was used in the quarries .
we have just done so .
i had news to night , bad news , and i see trouble coming .
with dramatic suddenness he struck a match , and by its light exposed a stain of blood upon the whitewashed wall .
he called me this moment from this window , and i ran with all my speed .
my whole examination served to turn my conjecture into a certainty .
is such as we might expect .
i have had a wire that he arrived at southampton this morning .
but it is a very singular thing ,
yet i feel that the clue is the most important one that i hold .
but from what you say we might perhaps be doing better work in london .
it is late in march , so quarter day is at hand .
i crept round there last night and scratched at the window .
get what ?
i came in the hope of preventing it .
there was , therefore , as can be imagined , some little social friction when the young couple for they were still young found themselves in their new surroundings .
the total value of the estate was close on to a million .
what was she to do ?
the inspector endeavoured to look interested .
even a wife 's eyes could not pierce so complete a disguise .
i appreciate your special knowledge .
most certainly .
there was major sholto , captain morstan , and lieutenant bromley brown , who were in command of the native troops , and there was the surgeon himself , and two or three prison officials , crafty old hands who played a nice sly safe game .
you will please keep your distance .
you cannot think how caressing and soothing his manner was ' and what has frightened you , my dear young lady ?
excuse my using your name ,
i thought my disguise was pretty good , but i hardly expected that it would stand that test .
i am a widow , and my boy in the navy has cost me much .
true for you , mr mcmurdo .
it seems to me to be rather grotesque than otherwise .
this was what mcmurdo read :
you are very welcome to put any questions that you like to me now , and there is no danger that i will refuse to answer them .
i got leave to bring it with me , thinking that it would interest you to be the first to see it .
not at all , i shall be very happy to accommodate myself to your wishes .
if the cottage is now permanently deserted we may have some difficulty .
he had doubtless planned beforehand that should he slay the major he would leave some such record upon the body as a sign that it was not a common murder , but , from the point of view of the four associates , something in the nature of an act of justice .
i was standing , rapt in the peaceful beauty of the scene , when i was aware that something was moving under the shadow of the copper beeches .
hullo , what is this ?
it 's the business of the lodge , and even to you it 's secret .
can you , then , tell me the name of any woman whose initials are l .
what sort of night was it ?
they are fresh , too .
we are of those who believe in those sacred writings , drawn in egyptian letters on plates of beaten gold , which were handed unto the holy joseph smith at palmyra .
give me a pencil and that slip of paper .
you know peterson , the commissionaire ?
i understood the whole argument of that firm , restraining grip that it was no affair of ours , that justice had overtaken a villain , that we had our own duties and our own objects , which were not to be lost sight of .
let us see how it fits in with the sequel .
yet it would be a petty and selfish love which would be influenced by such a thought as that .
holmes could talk exceedingly well when he chose , and that night he did choose .
you say that you are acting for lady eva .
let us have him arrested on his arrival .
no , no , the mystery !
i have acted all through for them as much as for myself .
if it is indeed a fact that he was averse to a marriage with so charming a young lady as this miss turner .
to day , for example ?
you say it was large ?
at his fall the guardsmen took to their heels in one direction and the loungers in the other , while a number of better dressed people , who had watched the scuffle without taking part in it , crowded in to help the lady and to attend to the injured man .
monica in the edgeware road .
he looked about him in the slow methodical fashion of old age .
if i have not returned , wait for me .
i could see that the end had not been in his mouth .
no , no , we shall all be justified when we see the tenants of high gable at the next guildford assizes .
i shall try and give it to you in his own very words .
if i pay him well , at least he delivers the goods , to use his own phrase .
again , however , his active spirit shook off the lethargy which springs from despair .
his arms were round her now .
there was no one in the street ?
that 's why i first thought that someone was after him .
have you the slate , harold ?
in the whole world there can be no more dreary view than that from the northern slope of the sierra blanco .
he followed the hound to call him off of that you may be certain .
his name was tito castalotte , and he was the senior partner of the great firm of castalotte and zamba , who are the chief fruit importers of new york .
you have saved us a long walk , which would have brought us back on our own traces .
my name ,
i understand , however , from the inquest that there were some objects which you failed to overlook ?
you arranged an affair for a lodger of mine last year ,
can a husband ever carry about a secret all his life and a woman who loves him have no suspicion of it ?
i think that we may safely say ,
there were the marks of the horse 's hoofs , too , the outline of one of which was far more clearly cut than that of the other three , showing that that was a new shoe .
a freezing horror took possession of me .
i have not an idea .
his wild eyes , stained cheeks , and unkempt hair all spoke of the sudden blow which had fallen upon the household .
i shall come down in a carriage to meet you .
he could not explain what had become of the assassin or why he had not taken his bicycle , if it were indeed his .
no , sir i have made inquiry all over the hotel , but i can hear no word of it .
she whispered , ' get away from here before it is too late !
beppo was his name his second name i never knew .
the proof of its intrinsic simplicity is , that without any help save a few very ordinary deductions i was able to lay my hand upon the criminal within three days .
i knew that it was my sister 's voice .
you can see as far as i .
you have been of material assistance to me .
holmes turned away smiling from the keen scrutiny of those wonderful eyes .
continue .
this was four years ago , and we have been in new york ever since .
jonathan wild was the hidden force of the london criminals , to whom he sold his brains and his organization on a fifteen per cent .
as governess ?
mcmurdo , accustomed only to the prosaic performances of chicago , listened with open ears and more surprise than he ventured to show to what followed .
he used to pay in notes and gold at first , but soon it came to notes of hand and for big sums he sometimes would win for a few deals , just to give him heart , and then the luck would set in against him worse than ever .
what a providential thing that this young man should press his right thumb against the wall in taking his hat from the peg !
there is a further point , however , which is subtler and of greater interest .
at twelve o clock barrymore , finding the hall door still open , became alarmed , and , lighting a lantern , went in search of his master .
there was not a man in the room whose hands had not been reddened a dozen times before .
i was hanging on the side of the table when barker came hurrying down .
he carefully scrutinized with his lens the talc shield which covered the top of the chimney and scraped off some ashes which adhered to its upper surface , putting some of them into an envelope , which he placed in his pocketbook .
cried pycroft .
i am glad you have come , sir it has been a long evening , and i do n't think my nerve is as good as it was .
your name ?
and found nothing ?
what a nerve the fellow has !
i could not bear to see the smile fade even for a moment from his face .
the two young mormons stared at him in amazement .
let us make good use of it .
that carries us right on to the other block .
no , by george , i could n't !
i think ,
at last he flung down the instrument , and plunged into a detailed account of his misadventures .
when you have collected some fresh evidence , come to me again .
i suppose that you will admit that the action is morally justifiable , though technically criminal .
you appear , however , to have been disagreeably impressed by it .
this man small is a pretty shrewd fellow .
wait a bit , mrs warren .
from that appointment he never came back alive .
when he had returned home he made his own preparations for the grim evening in front of him .
what have we to fear , anyhow ?
captain marvin is my name .
i am very busy just now , and i desire no distractions ,
you have a clue ?
very likely .
the night was very dark , and a thin , warm rain was falling .
his eyes shone , and his cheek was flushed with the exhilaration of the master workman who sees his work lie ready before him .
good for you , brother baldwin ,
it 's every man 's business to see justice done .
mr joseph harrison drove us down to the station , and we were soon whirling up in a portsmouth train .
he lay on his back , his knees drawn up , and his mouth horribly open .
you have done your best to get an innocent man hanged .
it was as well that his prairie training had given jefferson hope the ears of a lynx .
holmes grunted from the sofa .
i beg your pardon ,
this quite fits in with all that i had heard .
for the law , too , and all who were connected with it , he exhibited a bitter contempt which delighted some and alarmed others of his fellow boarders .
he drew on his gloves , closed the door , and marched off down the street .
the premier nodded approvingly .
if you get off after this , it 's another story !
well , where d'ye suppose the balance is ? he asked .
i heard that , and i came down .
prima donna imperial opera of warsaw yes !
yes , sir he came in .
some of my most interesting cases have come to me in this way through mycroft .
the supply of game for london is going steadily up ,
mcginty was the name bodymaster mcginty .
it is the brightest rift which i can at present see in the clouds .
therefore all the knowledge which he possessed was such as would be useful to him .
at farnham station i had no difficulty in being directed to charlington heath .
as you say , there appear to be grains of sawdust in it .
thank you , i need no help in arranging the clothes .
we have had a very painful incident at st .
susan is a country girl ,
it is for the convenience of these that the diogenes club was started , and it now contains the most unsociable and unclubable men in town .
as to you , dear , i fear that this is a matter of politics .
it was , indeed , high time that someone capable of giving advice and help should come to the aid of the sturdy old farmer and his adopted daughter .
you have arms , i suppose ?
lestrade chuckled with delight at having puzzled the famous expert .
once or twice he stopped , as though the climb were too much for him , but at last he made his way to our door and entered .
with a last howl of agony and a vicious snap in the air , it rolled upon its back , four feet pawing furiously , and then fell limp upon its side .
one moment ,
the limbs and body of some large , white bird , torn savagely to pieces with the feathers still on , were littered all over it .
perhaps one of those indians who were the associates of jonathan small .
the plump young man led us to a spot where the top of one of the wooden rails had been cracked .
impossible , i say .
had he any friends in town ?
you must have examined the house very carefully to find a single pellet of paper .
yes , baynes , i 've seen it .
i cried , for at this moment there came the pattering of many steps in the hall and on the stairs , accompanied by audible expressions of disgust upon the part of our landlady .
i 'll go to the patch to morrow morning .
it gave the name john douglas .
what of this ' cooee !
cried holmes , springing to his feet .
i 've had a good look , mr holmes ,
i did not wonder at lestrade 's opinion , and yet i had so much faith in sherlock holmes ' insight that i could not lose hope as long as every fresh fact seemed to strengthen his conviction of young mccarthy 's innocence .
in solving a problem of this sort , the grand thing is to be able to reason backwards .
i have your letter here .
you have a duplicate key ?
the miners were still whispering among themselves .
i stood among the rocks watching them , very much puzzled as to what i should do next .
when i had made it clear to them , i returned to the main chamber of the machine and took a good look at it to satisfy my own curiosity .
why , dr watson , that 's not you , is it ?
the fellow is a genius in his way , and would have made his mark in some more savoury trade .
undoubtedly .
he 's got two of the warders and mereer , the second mate , and he 'd get the captain himself , if he thought him worth it .
well , it 's the same society here .
as there were no indications of bootmarks about this ditch , i was absolutely sure not only that the cunninghams had again lied , but that there had never been any unknown man upon the scene at all .
sherlock holmes was rubbing his hands and chuckling as he added this bizarre incident to his collection of strange episodes .
lord st .
no doubt you thought me fanciful .
we were still a hundred yards or so from it , but he insisted upon our alighting , and we finished our journey upon foot .
you must act , man , or you are lost .
as it happens , it was not the carriages which i desired to examine .
if you will stand there i will talk .
i wanted to say to you how sorry i am about the stupid mistake i made in thinking that you were sir henry .
he seemed to me to be pale and bothered .
well , let us hear about it .
did his companions follow him and kill him ?
drebber , of cleveland .
so i see ,
yet i am not a beggar and i shall reward you , young sahib , and your governor also , if he will give me the shelter i ask .
she was about to renew her entreaties when a door slammed overhead , and the sound of several footsteps was heard upon the stairs .
he opened one of his hands , and looked at a note crumpled up in his palm .
if she had to leave him he had rather it was to a neighbour like myself than to anyone else .
i do not feel that there is any reason why i should render an explanation to you , mr holmes .
but at last he thought he saw his chance .
i see also in your open desk there that you have a sheet of stamps and a thick bundle of post cards .
no , sir , i really could not , ' i answered firmly .
the august person who employs me wishes his agent to be unknown to you , and i may confess at once that the title by which i have just called myself is not exactly my own .
and now , mr soames , i wish you good night .
an instant later , his feet were on my shoulders , but he was hardly up before he was down again .
i doubt if we shall catch her .
the blind was up and the window shut , but i could just make out the bushes on the lawn , and it seemed to me for a moment that i saw something moving among them .
i am not a very heavy sleeper , and the anxiety in my mind tended , no doubt , to make me even less so than usual .
he was running wildly towards them , his absurd net dangling behind him .
mrs allen , the housekeeper , had taken her upstairs and stayed with her in the bedroom .
i was sorry for him and i came .
last night i made a last attempt .
in the first place , have you heard of any strangers being seen in your neighbourhood ?
my dear fellow , you shall keep watch in the street .
it was over them that the great quarrel arose .
for sarah cushing loved me that 's the root of the business she loved me until all her love turned to poisonous hate when she knew that i thought more of my wife 's footmark in the mud than i did of her whole body and soul .
two officers who are in command of a convict guard learn an important secret as to buried treasure .
as they could not be put to the proof until this evening , i invited you and your colleague to take a holiday for the day .
cried holmes , looking down into the engine room , while the fierce glow from below beat upon his eager , aquiline face .
exactly .
it was the first announcement in the found column .
that is so !
and this is thursday morning .
i often take advantage of the freedom which it gives .
in a very short time a decrepit figure had emerged from the opium den , and i was walking down the street with sherlock holmes .
then we returned to the office , and searched the stairs and the passage without result .
i was perfectly certain that he had some powerful enemies , that he believed they were on his track , and that he was always on his guard against them .
then , again , if not poison , what had caused the man 's death , since there was neither wound nor marks of strangulation ?
i have sworn it by the most solemn oaths which a man can take .
nothing else of importance was discovered in the room by the police , save the inexplicable fact that neither upon mrs barclay 's person nor upon that of the victim nor in any part of the room was the missing key to be found .
if my record were closed to night i could still survey it with equanimity .
it was pitiful , however , to see his exhaustion .
he made no allusion to the affair , however , until one afternoon a fortnight or so later .
i only know mr holmes through some business dealings which we have had , but i have every respect for his talents and his character .
lord bellinger !
have n't we tried that before now , and what ever came of it ?
it was a clear reach of the river , with barking level upon one side and the melancholy plumstead marshes upon the other .
there 's a light in a woman 's eyes that speaks louder than words .
just as i arrived the door was opened , and we were shown up together to holmes ' room .
suspicion of murder and arson .
on the ground floor was the tutor 's room .
he was very ill , poor fellow .
is there a cellar with a good strong lock ?
i should wish to speak to you , but would rather not do so in your house .
witness : nothing definite .
and who bought the mines of todman and of lee that came into the market in the same way last year ?
he happened to be a friend of our colonel 's , who had taken an interest in me since the accident .
there was nothing mysterious .
surely it would not be difficult to find out .
yes , sir i 'm afraid it has spoilt your beautiful bust , for it passed right through the head and flattened itself on the wall .
exactly !
we had hardly sunk from view when the man flew past us on the road .
how on earth
and yet it may be wise that we make a move before it is worse .
miss morstan was muffled in a dark cloak , and her sensitive face was composed , but pale .
i tried to scream and was vaguely aware of some hoarse croak which was my own voice , but distant and detached from myself .
in his mad fury he would have squeezed the life out of him if mcmurdo had not interfered .
with your permission , miss stoner , we shall now carry our researches into the inner apartment .
i could not imagine a man of your habits looking at himself in an equal light and being satisfied with such a result .
if you can enjoy it in peace , well and good !
have a cigar ,
yes , and as old as the house .
at the time the circumstances made a deep impression upon me , and the lapse of two years has hardly served to weaken the effect .
a gruesome packet .
it 's enough that they were guilty of the death of two human beings a father and a daughter and that they had , therefore , forfeited their own lives .
old frankland the crank ?
it will be harder to read now than that palimpsest .
exactly ,
but it 's the lady , mary mary fraser for never will i call her by that accursed name .
he was in shirt and trousers , with no covering to his feet .
the autumn of that year was a stormy one , and there was a long succession of southerly gales .
she drew in her breath sharply as one whose doubts are resolved .
yes , yes i admit i cannot explain them .
do n't imagine that you can bully me ,
how 's that , then ?
the door of the study opened straight on to the terrace .
you 're the only one woman on earth to me .
he uses it in some of his tricks according to her account .
give me your hand !
the doctor has scored once more .
that was to some extent in favour of the accused , as when seen quarrelling he was face to face with his father .
i only wished to ask you how you would go from here to the strand .
look at this !
i entered my consulting room and found a gentleman seated by the table .
no , sir down at the station they are certain that no stranger either came or went yesterday .
but it seems to me we 've got a bit off the trail so far as that note is concerned .
of the lodge ?
then he has a beast of a dog which roams the garden .
i 'll let you have pocket money and everything .
i know that i went back to drink , like the beast that i was .
i have heard of you , mr holmes .
we have already a clue .
a shadow of a doubt as to my conduct would bring the matter to an end .
i 'm bound to say this bears out your theory , mr barker .
i am usually an extremely sound sleeper .
for god 's sake , sir , i beg of you not to let the police know that he is still on the moor .
i know that a paper has disappeared .
something like fear sprang up in the young lady 's expressive black eyes .
the sooner the better , for we do not know what their next move may be .
it was just half past ten by the hall clock .
among the old houses on the hillside the stone huts where the old folk used to live .
let you have five hundred to morrow morning .
i assure you , watson , without affectation , that the status of my client is a matter of less moment to me than the interest of his case .
well , then , ask mrs oakshott for it .
but she had not recovered from that sudden glimpse of guilty fear which she had read in the man 's face .
thank you , that is excellent .
where , then ?
his life depended upon my promptness .
i think , watson , that you would do well to put that revolver where you can reach it .
but his left handedness .
he lies under suspicion of having poisoned the stable boy , he was undoubtedly out in the storm , he was armed with a heavy stick , and his cravat was found in the dead man 's hand .
well , it may have got mixed with them .
the stage lost a fine actor , even as science lost an acute reasoner , when he became a specialist in crime .
if so , it must have been one of those ingenious secret codes which mean one thing while they seem to mean another .
you are not to be talked over , and quite right , too .
did you ever hear of a dog running up a curtain ?
you cannot hold him responsible for that .
author of jungle .
holmes was the first to spring to his feet .
i must congratulate you , inspector , on handling so distinctive and instructive a case .
my mind was soon made up .
now cast your mind back , holmes .
it opened on to a squalid courtyard .
there is another training stable quite close , i understand ?
then some new strong thought caused it to set like a mask .
do you see any prospect of solving this mystery , mr holmes ?
now , my dear fellow , in the matter of these explanations , we have , if i may ask for your cooperation , a hard and dangerous night 's work in front of us .
it is your only chance ,
as i waited , i lifted the unopened newspaper from the table and glanced my eye over it .
my father was an officer in an indian regiment who sent me home when i was quite a child .
and leave your case unfinished ?
this is a queer old book i picked up at a stall yesterday ' de jure inter gentes ' published in latin at liege in the lowlands , in .
i expected to hear you say so .
shillings have not been so plentiful with me as they once were ,
my friend bowed and smiled .
you had best take it , then .
i wished him to help me .
excellent !
there was one thing in the case which had made the deepest impression both upon the servants and the police .
the son , as far as he knew , was in bristol .
a quick blush passed over her fresh young face as holmes shot one of his keen , questioning glances at her .
yes , only one .
i think , mr holmes , it is time that we were leaving for euston .
did n't he ask you why you did n't bring him the papers ?
owns about two hundred and fifty thousand acres .
what made you come here ?
any truth is better than indefinite doubt .
yes , he would .
it was half past eleven before we went to our room .
there are several points upon which we still want light but it is coming all the same .
besides , we may chance to hit upon some other obvious facts which may have been by no means obvious to mr lestrade .
does he not explain ?
such are the true facts of the death of dr grimesby roylott , of stoke moran .
then she found herself in this study .
he lifts the case from the regions of the commonplace .
i must beg you to be more explicit .
my second , i fear , was rather one of professional satisfaction .
this is really a very pretty demonstration .
give him no cause for fear .
saviour 's , near king 's cross , and we were to have breakfast afterwards at the st .
from his expression as he entered , however , i could see that all had gone well with him .
no , no , my good sir ,
proved to be disappointingly little , and yet there was enough to assure us that the case before us might well be worthy of the expert 's closest attention .
there 's a party starting for nevada to morrow , and i 'll manage to send him a message letting him know the hole we are in .
our visitor had recovered something of his assurance while holmes had been talking , and he rose from his chair now with a cold sneer upon his pale face .
we regard this case as one of murder , and the evidence may implicate not only your friend mr stapleton but his wife as well .
i left good friends behind me , and one of them is in the telegraph service .
it 's scowrers here and scowrers there , and always in a whisper !
that is certainly very singular .
they have strange limits and one must learn to observe them .
you have been looking a little pale lately .
they seize him and use violence towards him in order to make him sign some papers to make over the girl 's fortune of which he may be trustee to them .
but i can n't walk .
i claim no credit in such cases .
well , he is variable .
then , if my friend of the night comes to revisit me , he will find the bird flown .
it was no wonder that no one was stirring .
having got them i let my man go , but i wired full particulars to forbes this morning .
it is a pity there is no key , that we may make an inventory first .
he has been in your service some years , colonel ross ?
i trust that she is no worse ?
there 's plenty of thread , no doubt , but i can n't get the end of it into my hand .
but dr mortimer was no doubt already stopping there ?
i got her the situation here when first i took the matter up .
well , that gives us a limit .
these ears bear no signs of this .
if he was vulnerable he was mortal , and if we could wound him we could kill him .
he is one of the most dangerous men in england a ruined gambler , an absolutely desperate villain , a man without heart or conscience .
that is a hard saying , mr holmes .
what do you read ?
i shall take no notice of such nonsense .
come up and look !
three gilt balls and a brown board with jabez wilson in white letters , upon a corner house , announced the place where our red headed client carried on his business .
well done !
he is still with you , i presume ?
i have set other agencies at work , and used every means at my disposal .
there was some words between young drebber and young stangerson as to which was to have her .
he slipped into this room , because it was the first that he saw .
his signet ring .
pray sit down , and let me have your letter .
did you ever know him to cut himself in shaving before ?
by representing himself as a single man he acquired complete influence over her , and he gave her to understand that in the event of her obtaining a divorce from her husband he would marry her .
did i ask you for your advice , or did you think me such a sucker that i could n't move without it ?
think of that little affair of the red headed men .
yet i am certain that he does not wish their intimacy to ripen into love , and i have several times observed that he has taken pains to prevent them from being tete a tete .
i heard the creak of a door and the crisp sound of boots upon gravel .
you interest me very much , mr holmes .
there are three men waiting for him at the door ,
a month , however is too long .
the woman 's words came with an intense earnestness which carried conviction with them .
that is well !
did you take any messages to mr staunton ?
then i shall reconsider my resolution about going out .
the stapletons then went down to devonshire , whither they were soon followed by sir henry and you .
presently she came to a halt , and hailed a four wheeler which was passing .
when this was drawn it disclosed a large , brass bound safe .
you got the young lady into your service , and there woodley was to do the courting .
because i looked for it .
he looked sharply from holmes to me .
i was limp and weary , befogged in mind and fatigued in body .
it is of enormous importance that nothing further should leak out .
i thought of the strange warning clipped out of the leading article of the times .
but you might have stuck to mordecai smith , and so been led to their hiding place ,
several times during our homeward journey i endeavoured to sound him upon the point , but he always glided away to some other topic , until at last i gave it over in despair .
they would be likely to agree on some meeting place beforehand ,
picture to yourself the unilateral development , the imminent danger of a spinal curvature .
it was clear , therefore , that if a man had come over with a bicycle it was from tunbridge wells that he might be expected to have come .
it is not for me to open my mouth , mr morris , and if you think well to say anything to me i am here to hear it .
the lady 's story certainly seems to be corroborated , if it needed corroboration , by every detail which we see before us .
exclaimed jones , with evident satisfaction .
the train of reasoning ran , ' here is a gentleman of a medical type , but with the air of a military man .
those are my sisters , sarah and mary .
i have tried to reconstruct it from the measurements .
anyhow i went .
are you ?
we stood near the edge peering down at the gleam of the breaking water far below us against the black rocks , and listening to the half human shout which came booming up with the spray out of the abyss .
holmes took a note of it .
but suddenly i was aware of that which his keener senses had already distinguished .
i fear that all our neighbours would tell you that , even if i were to attempt to deny it .
sherlock holmes stopped at a door some little distance from the carlton , and , cautioning me not to speak , he led the way into the hall .
he whispered .
we took the wrong one .
if your position is innocent , why did you in the first instance deny having written to sir charles upon that date ?
there now !
and his face gets between me and my sleep .
so much also we know .
perhaps i should have said ' replaced it there , '
morris drank , and his white face took a tinge of colour .
let bygones be bygones ,
i have never loved , watson , but if i did and if the woman i loved had met such an end , i might act even as our lawless lion hunter has done .
they had gone to the front of the house together .
we passed across holborn , down endell street , and so through a zigzag of slums to covent garden market .
a widower .
i desired , as i have explained , to keep my visit to you a secret , lest my husband should think that i was intruding into his affairs .
so much i learned partly from village gossip and partly from my own observation .
but what good is a steam launch without coals ?
grave enough !
how do you know ?
now , you see how the affair begins to clear up .
late last night , or early this morning , an incident occurred at lower norwood which points , it is feared , to a serious crime .
i have not been here before .
i turn to you , mr holmes , as absolutely my last hope .
i quite understand your position ,
he would talk of nothing but art , of which he had the crudest ideas , from our leaving the gallery until we found ourselves at the northumberland hotel .
you are the same percy trevelyan who has had so distinguished a career and won a great prize lately ?
on the other hand , we are bound to inform the police of the discovery , and to see that this poor fellow 's body is looked after .
it was in the early ' ' s at the diggings .
you have withheld what the connection is between these events .
but why keep me in the dark ?
it ended in a curving staircase , with the commissionnaire 's lodge in the passage at the bottom .
his slippers , too , were gone , but his boots were left behind .
put it down here .
and we are making it dangerous for ourselves .
what can have put the shivers on him ?
why should n't we use a little art jargon .
very good .
he was dressed in nightshirt and trousers , with his favourite blackthorn cudgel in his hand .
everything fits together .
the glass smashed into a thousand pieces and the fruit rolled about into every corner of the room .
it was a navy revolver of the largest size .
at that hour we shall meet again in this room .
your majesty must pay .
had n't you better reserve that for your trial ?
i had imagined that i had reached the end of my adventures , but a very unexpected occurrence showed me that there were surprises still in store for me .
but that is perfectly impossible , mr baynes ,
if sarah had been there , by the lord , she should have joined them .
i had pictured him as a more robust and ruffianly person .
it appears to be a statement of some sort .
the moon shone on it , and it looked like a great shimmering ice field , with the heads of the distant tors as rocks borne upon its surface .
that is the mission which now lies before us , and here , watson , is the sydenham train .
the son , on the other hand , had dropped all that jaunty , dashing style which had characterized him , and the ferocity of a dangerous wild beast gleamed in his dark eyes and distorted his handsome features .
master always wore his plain gold wedding ring on the little finger of his left hand .
a worked antimacassar lay upon her lap and a basket of coloured silks stood upon a stool beside her .
cried i ,
arrive five forty .
now , mr mac and you , mr white mason , i wish to give you a very earnest piece of advice .
here is the first heading upon which i come .
then dress .
we have not heard your story , and we cannot tell how far justice may originally have been on your side .
now brother , we attend you .
have you seen pierrot 's advertisement to day ?
in the silence of the night we could hear the panting and clanking of their machinery .
it is due at winchester at : .
you shall learn nothing from me ,
it shines on a good many folk , but on none , i dare bet , who are on a stranger errand than you and i .
i can press it back , and here is the roof itself , sloping at a gentle angle .
they were all steady , chapel going folk , small farmers , well known and respected over the country side , while i was always a bit of a rover .
with your permission , i will remain in the waiting room while you go into my father 's case .
that is very helpful , mr holmes .
i trust that i am not more dense than my neighbours , but i was always oppressed with a sense of my own stupidity in my dealings with sherlock holmes .
the american held the small parcel in his hand , but made no motion to give it up .
that wire was to my dirty little lieutenant , wiggins , and i expect that he and his gang will be with us before we have finished our breakfast .
the rest is deduction .
the window of my father 's room was found open in the morning , his cupboards and boxes had been rifled , and upon his chest was fixed a torn piece of paper , with the words ' the sign of the four ' scrawled across it .
you remember the baker street division of the detective police force whom i employed in the jefferson hope case ?
we were both swift runners and in fairly good training , but we soon found that we had no chance of overtaking him .
if i have set it down it is because that which is clearly known hath less terror than that which is but hinted at and guessed .
he held a short , metal headed stick in his hand , and he advanced in so menacing a fashion that i was right glad to feel the revolver in my pocket .
i nodded to show that i had heard .
by heaven , holmes ,
he may have stolen it from pietro , he may have been pietro 's confederate , he may have been the go between of pietro and his sister .
drink and politics had made the boss a very rich as well as powerful man .
you 'll just need to be patient awhile , and then you 'll be all right .
the thickset chauffeur , who had seated himself by the table , pushed forward his glass with some eagerness .
how can you tell me what you know is false ?
my dear gregory , you anticipate all my wants .
i am sorry to have interrupted you .
the assurance and jauntiness which generally marked his demeanour and dress were , however , wanting .
that 's how i loved mary fraser .
if you have anything to say , you will find me writing my report in the sitting room .
we have had some very strange doings at hurlstone , and the police have been able to throw no light upon the matter .
as the whirl of dust drew nearer to the solitary bluff upon which the two castaways were reposing , the canvas covered tilts of waggons and the figures of armed horsemen began to show up through the haze , and the apparition revealed itself as being a great caravan upon its journey for the west .
i had already come to the conclusion , since there were no signs of a struggle , that the blood which covered the floor had burst from the murderer 's nose in his excitement .
what a pity that i should have missed him !
that was the train of events as far as i can decipher them .
tell me , friend macdonald , this pleasing and touching interview was , i suppose , in the professor 's study ?
it will not be an easy door to force , but we will try if we cannot make some one hear us .
i am inclined to agree with you .
we sat for some time in silence after our visitors had left .
just beyond were two ancient stone pillars , weather stained and lichen blotched , bearing upon their summits a shapeless something which had once been the rampant lion of capus of birlstone .
we shall take him by surprise and have him at our mercy before he can resist .
cried the high , snarling voice .
you will be in such a false position .
your works ?
he was tractable enough , though his son was a perfect demon , ready to blow out his own or anybody else 's brains if he could have got to his revolver .
can i get a train into town ?
what in the whole wide world can be the connection between this dead painting man and the affair at birlstone ?
my practice is never very absorbing .
no sir , it is impossible .
you understand ?
holmes stood by the table , with his hands deep in his trouser 's pockets and his chin upon his breast .
my mistress told me that you were likely to call .
it is less than two feet long .
we 'll know before the day is out whether we have caught our big , leanjawed pike , or whether he has got through the meshes .
at breakfast , however , i informed him about my discovery and asked him whether he would care to accompany me to coombe tracey .
my wife was on a visit to her mother 's , and for a few days i was a dweller once more in my old quarters at baker street .
she would rush to secure it .
but i 'll tell you straight what is in my mind .
it shall not go to villains .
we had ascertained from the lady that she went down upon the monday by the train which leaves waterloo at : , so i started early and caught the : .
stanley hopkins drew a slip of paper from his pocket .
he cried ,
we 've time yet ,
quite true .
i passed round the garden without seeing anything more than random tracks , which i took to be the police but when i got into the stable lane a very long and complex story was written in the snow in front of me .
the third of these cases was that of the musgrave ritual , and it is to the interest which was aroused by that singular chain of events , and the large issues which proved to be at stake , that i trace my first stride towards the position which i now hold .
he is no one whom i have seen down here , and i have now met all the neighbours .
you speak of danger .
i thought the police never could have seen through our dodge .
her lips , too , were bloodless , but her eyes were flushed with crying .
the matter is very important , and the farther i go with it , the more important it seems to grow .
you need not be ashamed to be frightened of him .
the cab still waits , and there are two inspectors down stairs .
i agree with you ,
do you mean danger from this family fiend or do you mean danger from human beings ?
before breakfast on the morning following my adventure i went down the corridor and examined the room in which barrymore had been on the night before .
how about the greek legation ?
your child ?
yes , sir , all the windows .
it is remarkable only for the fact that amid a perfect jungle of possibilities we , with our worthy collaborator , the inspector , have kept our close hold on the essentials and so been guided along the crooked and winding path .
i had often admired my friend 's courage , but never more than now , as he sat quietly checking off a series of incidents which must have combined to make up a day of horror .
my dear watson , clumsy as i have been , you surely do not seriously imagine that i neglected to get the number ?
if she made a mistake she has paid for it , if ever a woman did .
the manageress had sat all this while busy with her papers without a word to either of us , but she glanced at me now with so much annoyance upon her face that i could not help suspecting that she had lost a handsome commission through my refusal .
our first effort must be to find who are the tenants of charlington hall .
my defence against what ?
you can see for yourselves that they are very handsome .
he spoke perfect english , was pleasing in his manners , and as good looking a man as ever i saw in my life .
i followed him into his room , leaving the hall door ajar behind me , for i feared to be alone with the man .
i exclaimed ,
now i 'll tell you the queerest part of the whole story .
i tried here and tried there , but there were lots of other chaps on the same lay as myself , and it was a perfect frost for a long time .
has my husband been here , mr holmes ?
thank you .
abdullah khan , however , thinking that i hesitated , pressed the matter more closely .
he closed the door behind him , and then he stood with clenched hands and heaving breast , choking down some overmastering emotion .
they had at once sent for the doctor and for the constable .
i had smoked two cigarettes before he moved .
that will n't do , my dear watson ,
what 's this , dawson !
what was this paper which was stolen ?
the sidewalks were narrow and uneven .
it grew broader , and a woman appeared with a lamp in her hand , which she held above her head , pushing her face forward and peering at us .
i found myself weary and yet wakeful , tossing restlessly from side to side , seeking for the sleep which would not come .
between the wharf and the bedroom window is a narrow strip , which is dry at low tide but is covered at high tide with at least four and a half feet of water .
the odds are enormous against its being coincidence .
maybe i am no better than the others so do n't make a saint of me .
i have done my best for you .
i have no doubt , sir , that my friend godfrey , when we find him , will be prepared to do that .
barker looked at it with curiosity .
pray take a seat ,
the man mastered himself with a violent effort , and his grim mouth loosened into a false laugh , which was more menacing than his frown .
if the devil did desire to have a hand in the affairs of men
the man staggered to his feet and looked down upon the plain which had been so desolate when sleep had overtaken him , and which was now traversed by this enormous body of men and of beasts .
pray take the basket chair .
the man 's eyes were fixed upon the northern horizon .
from that day i had always my pill boxes about with me , and the time had now come when i was to use them .
your own deathbeds , when they come , will be the easier for the thought of the peace which you have given to mine .
we 'll have our lunch here , if you will permit us , and then we shall all three set off for town together .
poor douglas was lying as you see him .
i have long known , sir , how high is your sense of public duty ,
i have heard of you , mr holmes i have heard of you from mrs farintosh , whom you helped in the hour of her sore need .
if he was all on the same scale as his foot he must certainly have been a giant .
wire received .
i had so many letters now that i could proceed with considerable confidence to the second message , which worked out in this fashion :
i am afraid , my dear watson , that most of your conclusions were erroneous .
on the right side was a small wooden thicket , which led into a narrow path between two neat hedges stretching from the road to the kitchen door , and forming the tradesmen 's entrance .
mr douglas went round the house every night the last thing before he turned in to see that the lights were right .
she gave a quick nod of assent just as the other two came up .
a dead dog , or rabbits , or what ?
it argues , you see , a power of comparison and of appreciation which is in itself a proof of nobility .
in more fertile spots the observer would have come to the conclusion that one of those great herds of bisons which graze upon the prairie land was approaching him .
hissed mcginty through his closed teeth .
was it about mordecai smith 's boat ?
i had a feeling that there was something on his mind .
please come at once and join me there .
how came he into the room ?
three thousand will cover the matter .
there are none missing .
let us stay here until a train stops .
simon .
the third fellow paced up and down .
i have been cut to the quick .
my dear sir , please do what i ask you .
in that deeply peaceful atmosphere one could forget , or remember only as some fantastic nightmare , that darkened study with the sprawling , bloodstained figure on the floor .
when i tell you that his shoes were square toed instead of being pointed like blessington 's , and were quite an inch and a third longer than the doctor 's , you will acknowledge that there can be no doubt as to his individuality .
i presume , as i see blood stains upon it , that it is the one which was found in the dead man 's grasp .
so reuben hayes is taken ?
no , i have not .
well , i know that i am safe in your hands .
in the second one which i visited in northumberland avenue , i learned by an inspection of the book that francis h .
i hope before very long to be able to introduce you to the pair of them .
have just been wired for from the west of england in connection with boscombe valley tragedy .
he is an old soldier and a most trustworthy man .
that 's what mother used to do .
i am all attention ,
holmes had been buried in the morning papers all the way down , but after we had passed the hampshire border he threw them down and began to admire the scenery .
now , robert , you have heard it all , and i am very sorry if i have given you pain , and i hope that you do not think very meanly of me .
george 's , hanover square , that only half a dozen intimate friends would be invited , and that the party would return to the furnished house at lancaster gate which has been taken by mr aloysius doran .
if she had expected to startle him , she certainly succeeded but only in turn to be startled herself .
have you nothing to tell me ?
afterwards , if you like .
for five minutes he was silent .
but no slightest sign of them ever met our eyes .
well , what happened when you did get there ?
i do n't feel no malice against you for it .
but if you saw him so seldom and wrote so seldom , how did he know enough about your affairs to be able to help you , as you say that he has done ?
on the one side a great crag towered up a thousand feet or more , black , stern , and menacing , with long basaltic columns upon its rugged surface like the ribs of some petrified monster .
how can it ever be at ease , jack , when i know that you are a criminal among criminals , when i never know the day that i may hear you are in court for murder ?
lucy had been carried back by their terrible pursuers to fulfil her original destiny , by becoming one of the harem of the elder 's son .
who is there in england who did know of the existence of this letter ?
in the case of another , the objection might be fatal , but we must stretch a point in favour of a man with such a head of hair as yours .
i think that just at present i can be of more immediate use here .
but if , as i shrewdly suspect , he finds the nest empty before he gets there , why , all the better for the government .
you stand fast ?
she taxed her husband with his intended crime , and a furious scene followed in which he showed her for the first time that she had a rival in his love .
we saw you when we returned from tunbridge wells last night , and you were in general agreement with our results .
the medical student theory still appears to me to be the most feasible , but if you should have a few hours to spare i should be very happy to see you out here .
too large for easy concealment about a woman 's dress .
we had a pleasant luncheon in which little was said of the business which had brought us together .
the true voodoo worshipper attempts nothing of importance without certain sacrifices which are intended to propitiate his unclean gods .
so far all is clear .
well , father was going off to france again in a week , and hosmer wrote and said that it would be safer and better not to see each other until he had gone .
a pose is an artificial thing .
it was to be at st .
he tossed a sheet of paper upon the table , and turned once more to his chemical analysis .
he was an old friend of mccarthy 's , and , i may add , a great benefactor to him , for i have learned that he gave him hatherley farm rent free .
sherlock holmes listened with the deepest attention to this singular narrative .
cadogan west ?
a change had come over holmes 's manner .
he gave a little stately cough
give it to the superintendent at the police station .
your recent services to one of the royal houses of europe have shown that you are one who may safely be trusted with matters which are of an importance which can hardly be exaggerated .
the men had known each other in the colonies , so that it was not unnatural that when they came to settle down they should do so as near each other as possible .
there 's our man , watson !
all manner of vague and terrible fancies filled his imagination .
i should like to have his opinion of the case , though the authorities assure me that nothing more can be done .
bradstreet had spread an ordnance map of the county out upon the seat and was busy with his compasses drawing a circle with eyford for its centre .
there was no possible resistance under the menace of those rifles .
perhaps you will have the kindness to wait in this room for a few minutes ,
following his example , we threw ourselves upon it with all our weight .
when his body had been carried from the cellar we found ourselves still confronted with a problem which was almost as formidable as that with which we had started .
that i am an orphan and a bachelor , residing alone in lodgings in london .
and it is this letter this letter which may well mean the expenditure of a thousand millions and the lives of a hundred thousand men which has become lost in this unaccountable fashion .
no doubt , sir but this is different .
you will find a few notes upon the matter under the heading b in my indexed list of cases .
cried the stranger , in an ecstasy of despair .
the colonel still stared at my friend like a man in a trance .
has this gentleman gone , then ?
by his hand upon the table there lay a peculiar instrument , a brown , close grained stick , with a stone head like a hammer , rudely lashed on with coarse twine .
nor can it be denied that many of the family have been unhappy in their deaths , which have been sudden , bloody , and mysterious .
but how can we find where this house lies ?
he observed , staring up at the ceiling with dreamy , lack lustre eyes .
once within the house the man sprang to his feet , closed the door , and revealed to the astonished farmer the fierce face and resolute expression of jefferson hope .
you 'll come with me to night ?
you will dispatch whatever luggage you intend to take by a trusty messenger unaddressed to victoria to night .
that is all right ,
perhaps , when a man has special knowledge and special powers like my own , it rather encourages him to seek a complex explanation when a simpler one is at hand .
an elderly man with a red face and shaking limbs came staggering out at a side door .
barrymore 's only indication had been that the stranger lived in one of these abandoned huts , and many hundreds of them are scattered throughout the length and breadth of the moor .
you may go to any expense which you think necessary .
i have lived so long among savages and beyond the law ,
you have been very kind , but i must have this money , or else i can never show my face inside the club again .
he is armed with this gun .
i am much obliged to you both for your assistance .
by no means .
painful , is it ?
and the other points ?
and have no doubt searched all the huts until you came to this one ?
it is absolutely unique , and its value can only be conjectured , but the reward offered of pounds is certainly not within a twentieth part of the market price .
it was writhing with inward merriment .
ah , well , i do n't suppose you will forget your first visit .
he looked from one to the other of us , and under our gaze of inquiry he became conscious that some apology was needed for this unceremonious entry .
small , stout built , very quick in his ways , no hair on his face , though he 's not short of thirty .
we shall all go and try if we can get the better of brother bartholomew .
from his father .
this message makes it even more essential that we should not lose an hour in letting hilton cubitt know how matters stand , for it is a singular and a dangerous web in which our simple norfolk squire is entangled .
i have been offered a commission in the rhodesian police , and i am going out to south africa at once .
step this way , if you please , gentlemen , and i think i can convince you once for all that it was john mcfarlane who did this crime .
well , perhaps it was .
you 'll think it very mad , mr holmes , that a man of a good old family should marry a wife in this fashion , knowing nothing of her past or of her people , but if you saw her and knew her , it would help you to understand .
his eye , of course , would light upon this .
he came himself to live with me in the character of a resident patient .
behind there was nothing remarkable , save that the passage window could be reached from the top of the coach house .
we took him to a place which the sikhs had already prepared .
to do him justice , i think that he would take it himself with the same readiness .
with a slow smile he drew a folded and discoloured scrap of paper from his pocket .
you can catch glimpses of the river .
halloa , what on earth
well , when they closed their league offices that was a sign that they cared no longer about mr jabez wilson 's presence in other words , that they had completed their tunnel .
i had hoped to be able to bring news of your great coup .
all my unspoken instincts , my vague suspicions , suddenly took shape and centred upon the naturalist .
mycroft .
i read it in his horrible eyes .
his face was grave , and his manner was cold in the extreme .
then my temper got the better of me , and i began to threaten her .
well , we can adopt it as a working hypothesis and then see how far our difficulties disappear .
a sergeant , sir , royal marine light infantry , sir no answer ?
his dark brows knitted and his face flushed to a dusky red as he spoke .
well , james opened the letter and inserted a note asking arthur to meet him in a little wood called the ragged shaw , which is near to the school .
i made no remark , however , but sat nursing my wounded leg .
well , then , we will presume that she had come on a visit to england , and that this harold had persuaded her to fly with him .
it 's the man himself , by all that 's wonderful and audacious !
he came home with his heart full of hope , to find some peace , some comfort , and instead
what is it , then ?
i 'll tell you what ,
an ordinary man could not do it .
whatever he might think of the mormon doctrines , upon that one point he was inflexible .
i took the letters in in the morning , so there was no need for father to know .
she showed me , as i told you she would .
mrs cecil forrester ,
the date ?
perhaps , mr wilson , you would have the great kindness to recommence your narrative .
one of sherlock holmes 's defects if , indeed , one may call it a defect was that he was exceedingly loath to communicate his full plans to any other person until the instant of their fulfilment .
the night porter saw nothing , i suppose ?
the colonel flushed angrily .
i assure you that i am in your hands .
it was i
i give you my word of honour and i never broke it in my life that i will take a cab straight to the police station and give you away , unless you let me share this adventure with you .
well , you will know , i 'll promise you that .
i should not have the impertinence to do it again after what you say .
we must strike while the iron is hot .
be the answer what it might , i should at least have something to report to sherlock holmes .
watson , pick it up !
take it !
you call me a traitor but i guess there 's many a thousand will call me a deliverer that went down into hell to save them .
we picked up the track and followed it onward for some distance , but soon the moor rose into a long , heather tufted curve , and we left the watercourse behind us .
it was commanded up to monday night by james barclay , a gallant veteran , who started as a full private , was raised to commissioned rank for his bravery at the time of the mutiny , and so lived to command the regiment in which he had once carried a musket .
your case is an exceedingly remarkable one , and i shall be happy to look into it .
then i have just time , with your assistance , to get clear upon the subject .
but it was another thing when he came out into the world .
such was the dreadful end of my beloved sister .
he cried , and lay still .
i 'd like to say a word to you before we separate ,
about six .
his generous donations to local and county charities have been frequently chronicled in these columns .
he read the thought upon my features , and his smile had a tinge of bitterness .
we sat all three in a semicircle , with our heads advanced , and our chins upon our hands , while the strange , jerky little fellow , with his high , shining head , puffed uneasily in the centre .
the dog had suddenly turned out of the main road into a grass grown lane .
at the same time , he had a definite motive also .
his forecast proved to be correct , for the detective looked blank enough when i got to baker street and showed him the empty box .
well , who was the murdered man ?
well , here is the lodge , and if you will come up , colonel , i will show you the scene of the crime .
i 've less reason to wish the dook well than most men ,
and yet she may at the present moment be in danger of her life .
then i went back and looked round the corner .
now i have told you all my adventures , mr holmes , and i should be very glad if you could tell me what it all means , and , above all , what i should do .
what did you do that for ?
you do not propose to invest in south african securities ?
there were many grave objections to this theory , but it was conceivable .
by jove !
cried mcginty .
he threw me over the note which the commissionaire had brought .
then what on earth can he be doing ?
on the south of the house is , as you perceive , a large district of arable land , cut up into small fields , with stone walls between them .
if this man ordered one , it is a sign of a certain amount of foresight , since he went out of his way to take this precaution against the wind .
looking down from the sierra blanco , one sees a pathway traced out across the desert , which winds away and is lost in the extreme distance .
mcmurdo bore the inspection cheerfully , one hand in his coat pocket , the other twisting his brown moustache .
good heavens , holmes !
to morrow at midnight ,
you are yourself , i presume , a medical man ?
there was some show of discipline among them , despite their tumultuous entry , for they instantly drew up in line and stood facing us with expectant faces .
when the nobleman and his secretary had left , my friend flung himself at once with characteristic eagerness into the investigation .
i do n't think so .
what affairs ?
holmes , the busybody !
lawler had already carried out fourteen commissions of the kind , and andrews three .
but a second consideration struck me .
of course , he did not realize that it was i who was knocking , but none the less his conduct was very uncourteous , and , indeed , under the circumstances rather suspicious .
a fitting wind up to an extremely interesting case .
she had a considerable sum of money not less than pounds a year and this she bequeathed to dr roylott entirely while we resided with him , with a provision that a certain annual sum should be allowed to each of us in the event of our marriage .
two vivid red spots stood out on one of the white , round limbs .
i want you , mr mcfarlane , to cast it into proper legal shape .
passing down the waterloo bridge road we crossed over the river , and dashing up wellington street wheeled sharply to the right and found ourselves in bow street .
it is certainly bolted as well as locked .
when do we start ?
excellent !
i saw to it myself .
very long and very severe were the equinoctial gales that year .
the room was in a state of wild disorder , the furniture being all swept to one side , and one chair lying on its back in the centre .
the next he was gripped at the back of his neck by a grasp of iron , and a chloroformed sponge was held in front of his writhing face .
heavens , i hear his step upon the stair !
interjected holmes .
a child !
well , well , i daresay that a couple of rabbits would account both for the blood and for the charred ashes .
because you have just as good a chance of finding this lady in the one as in the other .
as to holmes , i observed that he sat frequently for half an hour on end , with knitted brows and an abstracted air , but he swept the matter away with a wave of his hand when i mentioned it .
it was not until later , when sir henry had gone to his room , that i was able to follow the trend of his thoughts .
is he safe ?
this is not talk for a police constable .
your hat and boots , watson , quick !
halloa , hopkins !
the butler was gone .
i wish you were all at the devil together .
he has withdrawn from the window .
do you mean that we are going to die too ?
no one could possibly find it .
suddenly , however , an unexpected incident opened up quite a new prospect to me .
presently , however , i found that he had many acquaintances , and those in the most different classes of society .
we received a telegram from dr huxtable yesterday afternoon , which told us of your discovery .
we scratched our other one , and put all hopes on your word ,
he is one of two who have a key of the safe .
but , on the other hand , whose blood was that which lay so thickly upon the floor ?
it was a chestnut .
looking back at the evening which you spent together , does anything stand out in your memory as throwing any possible light upon the tragedy ?
it does not lend itself to concealment .
then my comrade and i will swear that you shall have a quarter of the treasure which shall be equally divided among the four of us .
from this point we can see the entrance of the yard , and they can hardly see us .
the tea which had been ordered was brought up at the end of ten minutes but the maid , as she approached the door , was surprised to hear the voices of her master and mistress in furious altercation .
his room was on the second floor and was approached through another larger room , in which two boys were sleeping .
having sniffed the dead man 's lips i detected a slightly sour smell , and i came to the conclusion that he had had poison forced upon him .
we cannot live forever on such a volcano .
the small matter in which i endeavoured to help the king of bohemia , the singular experience of miss mary sutherland , the problem connected with the man with the twisted lip , and the incident of the noble bachelor , were all matters which are outside the pale of the law .
but the cause remains as obscure as before .
the second is to clear up the mystery and to punish the guilty parties .
excuse me , i know everything of it .
ai n't that so , or am i wrong ?
my skin went cold and my hair bristled at that horrible scream .
it confirms my diagnosis , as you doctors express it .
i was young .
we heard him say , and a moment later our man stood before us .
of course , i understood that he would repeat the attempt whenever it could be done with safety .
a letter arrived for my father yesterday evening , bearing the fordingbridge post mark .
had the volume been an unusual one , he would have sent it to me .
he darted into the hall , and a few moments later his bullying voice sounded from the back room .
we may talk further of this some other time .
that disposes of the idea of suicide anyhow .
could you start at once ?
the man was elderly and infirm .
he cried .
returning to france , i spent some months in a research into the coal tar derivatives , which i conducted in a laboratory at montpellier , in the south of france .
you look ill , mr pinner !
i 've been a member of the lodge for over two years , scanlan , but i never heard that duties were so pressing as all that .
it 's a most break neck place .
all about it
i was horrified for i had heard nothing of his illness .
if this fail , i shall have recourse to other methods .
i have jotted down the more essential ones upon this sheet of paper , together with a few addresses which you will find of service .
did he give you no address ?
half past two had chimed , and it was the darkest hour which precedes the dawn , when we all started as a low but sharp click came from the direction of the gate .
we brought him along to the cells , and his box as well , for we thought there might be something incriminating but , bar a big sharp knife such as most sailors have , we got nothing for our trouble .
it was twenty past three when we reached our terminus , and after a hasty luncheon at the buffet we pushed on at once to scotland yard .
did you tell him ?
oh , really !
she loves me with her whole heart and soul , and never more than now .
yes , yes , i am but you are too late .
i should be none the worse for a quiet , peaceful day in the country , and i am inclined to run down this afternoon and test one or two theories which i have formed .
the future will show which is right .
if you deal fair with us you 'll not regret it , but if you try any tricks , god help you !
it must be where she can lay her hands upon it .
what a week she must have spent !
then i made my way to town and called at the spanish embassy .
i talked it over with him .
on the evening of our arrival we were sitting in the colonel 's gun room after dinner , holmes stretched upon the sofa , while hayter and i looked over his little armory of eastern weapons .
honour is a mediaeval conception .
people tell me that i have spoiled him .
it occurred to me that if these appeals came , as i expected , from someone who had been intimate with the lady in her early life , a combination which contained two e 's with three letters between might very well stand for the name ' elsie .
see the value of imagination ,
i imagined at the time that he had some strong reason for not alluding to it , but he soon dispelled the idea by coming round to the subject of his own accord .
i have always felt that there was something singular and questionable in this man 's character , but the adventure of last night brings all my suspicions to a head .
will you come upstairs , dr watson , and inspect my collection of lepidoptera ?
you know that there is another man then ?
it was not a dangerous exploit for he could always pretend that he had simply looked in to ask a question .
pray what did you do then ?
nothing wonderful in that , surely ?
basil .
i generally have chemicals about , and occasionally do experiments .
he spoke now with a feverish energy , the long hands twitching and jerking as he motioned me away .
the crate upon which i sit contains , napoleons packed between layers of lead foil .
this is indeed a mystery ,
what would you do , then ?
holmes and i put on our dress clothes , so that we might appear to be two theatre goers homeward bound .
oh , sir ,
he came to the end of the table and looked round at them .
save , perhaps , the sign of four .
you must hear me .
quite .
come , then , and , having exhausted the palmer , let us see what the dunlop with the patched cover has to offer us .
i was surprised to find my companion speaking as though he were about to set out on a journey , since he had not said anything to me about it .
he has to take the tray in .
the front room was plainly furnished as a sitting room and led into a small bedroom , which looked out upon the back of one of the wharves .
there was a bench at the end of the path , and we all sat down while homes examined one by one , the articles which lestrade had handed to him .
even then it was no easy matter to keep to the right track , for the moon had not yet risen , and the high cliffs on either side made the obscurity more profound .
he has not been moved at all ?
suppose that some enemy of his old life had tracked him down and committed this crime , what possible reason could he have for taking his wedding ring ?
since then i have of course had the hurlstone estates to manage , and as i am member for my district as well , my life has been a busy one .
nothing could be better ,
you speak to your mate upon the left to night , and see if he is to be trusted .
he had , then , several false keys .
quite so .
they may have had some doubt at first as to whether we were really pursuing them , but now as we followed every winding and turning which they took there could no longer be any question about it .
nothing , mr holmes .
he was a man of about fifty , tall , portly , and imposing , with a massive , strongly marked face and a commanding figure .
the affair proves , as i always thought it would , to be an extremely simple one , but i am obliged to you for assisting me in my investigation .
oh , you will see it out , will you ?
i can only wish you better luck in devonshire .
some of it , but the main part at the hotel .
let us go round the house and see why this particular room was chosen by the burglar .
john ferrier uttered these consoling remarks in a very confident tone , but she could not help observing that he paid unusual care to the fastening of the doors that night , and that he carefully cleaned and loaded the rusty old shotgun which hung upon the wall of his bedroom .
the farther wall of the orchard was already invisible , and the trees were standing out of a swirl of white vapour .
the premier sprang to his feet with that quick , fierce gleam of his deep set eyes before which a cabinet has cowered .
here 's half a crown .
she had wintered at davos platz , and was journeying now to join her friends at lucerne , when a sudden hemorrhage had overtaken her .
she promises him then not to go there again , but two days afterwards the hope of getting rid of those dreadful neighbors was too strong for her , and she made another attempt , taking down with her the photograph which had probably been demanded from her .
yes , watson , we have come upon the handiwork of a very remarkable individual .
i suppose there are no great number of points on a system such as this ?
at a quarter to eleven they had all gone to their rooms with the exception of ames , who was in the pantry .
i knew that seclusion and solitude were very necessary for my friend in those hours of intense mental concentration during which he weighed every particle of evidence , constructed alternative theories , balanced one against the other , and made up his mind as to which points were essential and which immaterial .
and from what ?
because i feared that some false conclusion might be drawn from it and that i might find myself involved in a scandal .
here are their marks on the left here , beside the laurel bushes .
as we passed out he exchanged a few words with the landlord , explaining that we were going on a late visit to an acquaintance , and that it was possible that we might spend the night there .
clearly such a blow must have been struck from behind .
the second floor is inhabited by daulat ras , the indian .
i ejaculated from my very heart .
his name , it appears , was fitzroy simpson .
this end , which we can examine , is frayed .
it is too late forever too late !
many traces we found of him in the bog girt island where he had hid his savage ally .
these blanks were not always sufficient , and you can see that the second man had a squeeze to fit his ' quarter ' in between the ' at ' and the ' to , ' showing that the latter were already written .
for you to know could not have helped us and might possibly have led to my discovery .
next instant , with a loud shout of triumph he held up one splinter , in which a round , dark object was fixed like a plum in a pudding .
good bye , and god help you in your undertaking .
and yet it would be the blackest treachery to holmes to draw back now from the part which he had intrusted to me .
phosphorus ,
i feel a foil as quick and supple as my own .
remember , my boy , not one word to your parents about the affair until everything is settled .
which of you is holmes ?
i do not see any indications of bleeding on the line .
you saw the ventilator , too ?
i have not heard .
mr fowler and miss rucastle were married , by special license , in southampton the day after their flight , and he is now the holder of a government appointment in the island of mauritius .
well , certainly that is also a conceivable hypothesis ,
the man has a beard !
it looks untidy , does it not , sir ?
a man who had read deeply about napoleon , or who had possibly received some hereditary family injury through the great war , might conceivably form such an idee fixe and under its influence be capable of any fantastic outrage .
i was so much better that i thought i could dispense with one .
but it might have been a cry of surprise .
you will perceive , watson , that the glasses are concave and of unusual strength .
three had been placed on one side .
very good , we will send a second wire to the postmaster , grimpen : ' telegram to mr barrymore to be delivered into his own hand .
else how could you know all that ?
he nearly fainted when he saw it .
this sounds serious ,
we need not trouble you any further , mr lestrade .
his face was ashy pale , beads of perspiration shone upon his brow , and his hands shook until the hunting crop wagged like a branch in the wind .
miss morstan and i chatted in an undertone about our present expedition and its possible outcome , but our companion maintained his impenetrable reserve until the end of our journey .
for all that i knew the worst might have happened in my absence .
we were sitting out upon the lawn on garden chairs , the three of us , basking in the sun and admiring the view across the broads , when a maid came out to say that there was a man at the door who wanted to see mr trevor .
london dangers were the privilege of the london force .
that is easily done .
i did not !
i 'm not so light to lift as i used to be .
all our reasoning seems to point that way .
so sinister was the impression which that face had produced upon me that i found it difficult to feel anything but gratitude for him who had removed its owner from the world .
it was better , if he could , to have his helpmate inside the house .
where are you bound for now ?
to one of several international spies and secret agents , whose names are tolerably familiar to me .
yes , sir
who did know of the existence of that letter ?
i am not a child .
here is the corner which corresponds to that which has been so unfortunately lost .
but how ?
how does she live ?
dunn , to keep some order and discipline during the long reign of terror .
it is a chill evening , and i do not know how long our expedition may last so i beg that you will wear your warmest coats .
i did so , and found my other neighbor to be a young fellow in much the same position as myself , whose crime had been forgery .
mcmurdo was on fire in a moment .
i could hear the wooden leg clackin ' on the stones .
a levelled revolver met him there with the stern blue eyes of captain marvin of the mine police gleaming behind the sights .
it is an open secret that the credit of this smart capture belongs entirely to the well known scotland yard officials , messrs .
i have a caseful of cigarettes here which need smoking , and the sofa is very much superior to the usual country hotel abomination .
we have made up our minds to have the truth out of you , so it will save you trouble to tell it sooner rather than later .
the richer pa grew the poorer was frank so at last pa would n't hear of our engagement lasting any longer , and he took me away to ' frisco .
there 's another one waiting for you if you can bring any more information .
he cried .
with his savage eyes and bristling moustache he was wonderfully like a tiger himself .
hurrah !
the gas in the hall was a mere point of light .
at last , when nothing else would do , he went off to france upon the business of the firm , but we went , mother and i , with mr hardy , who used to be our foreman , and it was there i met mr hosmer angel .
i saw their traces .
i do n't know , sir , it did n't matter to me where i sat .
i was only too glad to get out of such a house .
wait a bit , my friend ,
the true believers have been good friends to you .
you 've done splendid work and taken risks , and i can n't forget it .
in the exuberance of my joy , i asked him to lunch with me at the holborn , and we started off together in a hansom .
so much for the string , then ,
we should get the big fish , but the smaller would dart right and left out of the net .
what chance have we now to overtake or even to trace it ?
in that case i think that it is probable that no further steps may be taken .
i knows well where it is .
they had him alone at their mercy every other night in the week .
but of what society ?
they appear to be lists of stock exchange securities .
for half an hour he was silent and still .
i am sorry to hear this ,
continued the inspector ,
let me have the hotel directory ,
i have knowledge now which would enable me to trace them in many different ways .
where , then , is my wife ?
and why ?
you have a clue ?
the man seemed confused and undecided .
then we come into difficulties .
you have followed me wonderfully !
about the middle of the second day of their flight their scanty store of provisions began to run out .
the colonel 's body was then placed upon the sofa , and a careful examination made of the scene of the tragedy .
its smell and its color are an embellishment of life , not a condition of it .
well , that makes it the more effective .
even across the street i could see a great blue anchor tattooed on the back of the fellow 's hand .
of course , it is just possible that we may not have to go .
well , that is what we have to find out .
now she tiptoed forward and laid her hand lightly upon his bended shoulders .
but , my word !
i do n't know what there was about that face , mr holmes , but it seemed to send a chill right down my back .
there 's an east wind coming all the same , such a wind as never blew on england yet .
i stayed for the most necessary to be near the scene of action .
he had been as keen as any of them upon the business until this sudden incident had drawn his thoughts into another channel .
a small side door led into the whitewashed corridor from which the three bedrooms opened .
it is my weakness .
as we walked home together , holmes stopped at a telegraph office and sent off several wires .
that 's so .
yes , there are .
his estates were confiscated , and i was left with a pittance and a broken heart .
the inspector shook his head despondently , however .
yes , the constable here .
i walked past it , and wondered what sort of folk they were who had come to live so near us .
one of the gold corners , with three of the beryls in it , was missing .
the baronet is in a black reaction after the excitements of the night .
no , i hardly think so .
there was a long pause , during which we held our breath , and then a very gentle creaking sound came to our ears .
anything further to say ?
i think i shall have a pull at that flask , holmes .
as it was i told him that my feelings towards his sister were such as i was not ashamed of , and that i hoped that she might honour me by becoming my wife .
beside him lay a little child , with her round white arms encircling his brown sinewy neck , and her golden haired head resting upon the breast of his velveteen tunic .
five years altogether .
sounds like racing .
however , you will enjoy the rest of your breakfast all the better , will you not , for the thought that you have brought your case to a triumphant conclusion .
and he held out his arms ,
in the larger and older jewels every facet may stand for a bloody deed .
but what had it to do with the crime ?
during this time holmes spent some of his time smoking and dreaming in the cottage but a greater portion in country walks which he undertook alone , returning after many hours without remark as to where he had been .
does that strike you as very probable , watson ?
he 's about due .
and miss sutherland ?
by some means , which are not yet clear , he succeeded in winning , under a false name , this official position in the office , which he utilized in order to obtain moulding of various locks , and a thorough knowledge of the position of the strong room and the safes .
simon alone , and so we came right away round to his rooms at once .
he lay in the roadway so shaken in his wits that he never saw what became of the cab .
i have even heard that you go the length of boxing with the young officers .
but i knew the way into your good wishes and so i pretended to you that the law was after me .
i could see the blur of their craft , but they were going nearly as fast as i , and they must have been a long mile from the shore before i caught them up .
how sweet the morning air is !
the dancing irish deviltry had gone from her lover 's eyes .
you will all come in good time .
sarah was thirty three , and mary was twenty nine when i married .
these are the sole dwellers in the wilderness .
i 've offered to fight him if he thinks i have wronged him ,
now , the poor lass upstairs was like to have her wits turned at the singing and shouting and terrible oaths which came up to her from below , for they say that the words used by hugo baskerville , when he was in wine , were such as might blast the man who said them .
he had not been robbed , and there was no particular reason to suspect violence .
that is our signal ,
finally gennaro told me , through the paper , that he would signal to me from a certain window , but when the signals came they were nothing but warnings , which were suddenly interrupted .
there are no such signs , and no ticket has been found .
so rapidly does the brain act that i believe i had thought this all out before professor moriarty had reached the bottom of the reichenbach fall .
your narrative is most interesting ,
good day , mr pycroft .
his springy step never slowed until suddenly , when he was a hundred yards in front of me , he halted , and i saw him throw up his hand with a gesture of grief and despair .
who is on duty ?
simon , of course i 'd have done my duty by him .
anyhow i am taking no more chances .
you can have the same every fortnight for a long time to come if you keep the terms , ' he said .
alone i did it .
he must have left it behind ,
he is the very type of conventional british respectability , and the very man as a witness to impress another briton .
now we are ready for him ,
this is a most extraordinary thing ,
she has grown to be the flower of utah , and has found favour in the eyes of many who are high in the land .
with a cry of surprise i pointed him out to the baronet , but in the instant during which i had turned to grasp his arm the man was gone .
i 'll be back before long .
mr holmes is walking up and down in the field outside ,
no , no , he 's gone by this time !
when i looked back on the long chain of curious circumstances , many of them trivial in themselves , but all tending in the same direction , i could not disguise from myself that even if holmes 's explanation were incorrect the true theory must be equally outre and startling .
if you would only come back with me in my brougham , you would at least be able to soothe him , though i can hardly hope that you will be able to explain this remarkable occurrence .
ferrier remained silent for some little time with his brows knitted .
he was gagged before he could give the alarm , and tied down upon the bed .
these burglars made a considerable haul at sydenham a fortnight ago .
simon glanced over it .
that 's how i read it for nothing else will fit the facts .
in the evening i put on my waterproof and i walked far upon the sodden moor , full of dark imaginings , the rain beating upon my face and the wind whistling about my ears .
he turned it over , and we read :
from the pocket of his light summer overcoat protruded the bundle of indorsed papers which proclaimed his profession .
we have no right to take anything for granted ,
thank you !
my companion smiled an enigmatical smile .
darkness and dr watson 's umbrella my wants are simple .
he had called it a cabin , and a cabin it was , sure enough , for you would have thought that you were in a ship .
just let us hear it all in your own way as it occurred .
a couple seek refuge in london from a very terrible and instant danger .
the details are still to be added .
i feel it give a little ,
got your message , sir ,
i expect him here every instant .
the latter led to another broad passage , and just as we reached it we heard the sound of running feet and the shouting of two voices , one answering the other from the floor on which we were and from the one beneath .
here are the daily gazette extracts of the last fortnight .
observation with me is second nature .
how is mr holmes , sir ?
what have we here ?
you know me , then ?
if you could persuade him to come here and give us the benefit of his unique experience of this disease , the investigation of which has been his dearest hobby , i cannot doubt that he could help me .
a man 's track was visible beside the horse 's .
he was so furred to keep out the cold that he could not lay his hand on his pistol .
had they carried back both of his companions with them ?
and now , dr james mortimer
but holmes shook his head gravely .
i am dull indeed not to have understood its possibilities .
we can surely dismiss that ,
surely a gentleman should not lay much stress upon this , when a lady is in most desperate need of his help ?
married edith , daughter of sir charles appledore , .
i was on some sort of a heathy common mottled over with dark clumps of furze bushes .
of course you know all about it , gentlemen , a deal more than i do , very like , since reading is not in my line .
giant as he was , the man must have gone down like a pole axed ox before that terrific blow .
they would run a great risk and gain nothing by taking him .
you have my assurance that it left the box .
farintosh ,
every effort was made by inspector baynes , who has the case in hand , to ascertain the hiding place of the fugitives , and he had good reason to believe that they had not gone far but were lurking in some retreat which had been already prepared .
did you observe anything very peculiar about that bed ?
we have not .
monogram , coat of arms , picturesque address .
it would be a grand help to the police ,
here are two moorland farmhouses , high tor and foulmire .
it was a useless attempt .
tell me then what it was that you meant , and i will promise to convey your warning to sir henry .
he wheezed .
i need not say that he was loathed and avoided by every one of his neighbours , and that i have not heard one single word of sorrow about his terrible end .
i think that i have nothing further to learn from miss cushing .
the dog , incited by its master , sprang over the wicket gate and pursued the unfortunate baronet , who fled screaming down the yew alley .
what power had he , then ?
it is death .
thank god !
there is nothing at all new to me in the latter part of your narrative , except that you brought your own rope .
what upheaval can possibly have derailed him ?
but one false statement was made by barrymore at the inquest .
mr holmes , you are a wizard , a sorcerer !
that is well .
then you glanced up at the wall , and of course your meaning was obvious .
finally , he picked up his hunting crop and struck napoleon a sharp blow on the top of the head .
it is to recompense you for any inconvenience that we are paying to you , a young and unknown man , a fee which would buy an opinion from the very heads of your profession .
his father and his mother asked me to see you , for the mere mention of the subject is very painful to them .
does anyone know him by sight ?
it chanced that some little time later hugo left his guests to carry food and drink with other worse things , perchance to his captive , and so found the cage empty and the bird escaped .
so now , if you please , mr holder , we will set off for streatham together , and devote an hour to glancing a little more closely into details .
in all that broad landscape there was no gleam of hope .
oh , yes , i know that i have treated you real bad and that i should have spoken to you before i went but i was kind of rattled , and from the time when i saw frank here again i just did n't know what i was doing or saying .
there was certainly no boot in it then .
you stayed here when your master left ?
there was no one but alec fairbairn whose step she could have mistaken for mine .
you 've been asking for it this many a day , ted baldwin now you 've got it !
it was a bust of napoleon , like the one which we had seen that morning , and it had been broken into similar fragments .
cried stanley hopkins .
from the great black house there sounded through the silent night the saddest and most pitiful of sounds , the shrill , broken whimpering of a frightened woman .
thank you .
clearly the murderer had used it to remind his victim of some dead or absent woman .
you 're welcome to all you can find out in my smithy ,
out of date and waste paper .
and now i beg that you will lay before us everything that may help us in forming an opinion upon the matter .
he would cry .
james , you delivered that telegram to mr barrymore at the hall last week , did you not ?
he knew hardly any books , but he had traveled far , had seen much of the world .
then we shall most certainly go .
i bade him good night and left him .
a brown chest of drawers stood in one corner , a narrow white counterpaned bed in another , and a dressing table on the left hand side of the window .
but if the document is found ?
in a few clear words holmes explained the situation as it had appeared to us .
holmes !
a cold supper was ready upon the table , and when his needs were satisfied and his pipe alight he was ready to take that half comic and wholly philosophic view which was natural to him when his affairs were going awry .
why should he be pacing his room all the time ?
yes , i examined , myself .
her appearance gave me a shock .
when he arrived at tredannick wartha he found an extraordinary state of things .
it was all he could do to keep himself from screaming out , for an agonizing pain shot through his forearm .
i implore you not to do this , jack , ' she cried .
and he hurled it away at this point of his flight .
i struck him down with no more compunction than if he had been some foul and venomous beast .
but i do .
it was i who called ,
i think that you had best leave his examination to me .
i shall be delighted .
the folk on the countryside .
in every other respect he conformed to the religion of the young settlement , and gained the name of being an orthodox and straight walking man .
i do n't wish to be theatrical .
as to the gang , it will be within the memory of the public how completely the evidence which holmes had accumulated exposed their organization , and how heavily the hand of the dead man weighed upon them .
the bullets alone are enough to put his head in a noose .
then i seized my coat , which was weighted by the coppers which i had just transferred to it from the leather bag in which i carried my takings .
he held up the lantern , and his hand shook until the circles of light flickered and wavered all round us .
it was i who lit the lamp some minutes afterward .
the doctor most kindly took charge of me , and it was well he did so , for i had a fit in the station , and before we reached home i was practically a raving maniac .
at last the cab drew up at the third house in a new terrace .
it was at this time that he was sought out by professor moriarty , to whom for a time he was chief of the staff .
there it goes again !
there was , to my mind , something eerie and ghost like in the endless procession of faces which flitted across these narrow bars of light , sad faces and glad , haggard and merry .
he appears to have chosen a fair crowd of ye .
the hardest job was to learn my way about , for i reckon that of all the mazes that ever were contrived , this city is the most confusing .
but then , again , your face grew sadder you shook your head .
i was prepared for a hound , but not for such a creature as this .
with the small competence he possessed , eked out by such employment as he could pick up , he travelled from town to town through the united states in quest of his enemies .
but there is a cheetah and a baboon .
it is of the greatest interest to me , especially since i have had the opportunity of observing your practical application of it .
they counted the steps of their comrade down the passage .
there 's money in this case , watson , if there is nothing else .
holmes sat motionless by the fire , his hands buried deep in his trouser pockets , his chin sunk upon his breast , his eyes fixed upon the glowing embers .
at last , however , the bumping of the road was exchanged for the crisp smoothness of a gravel drive , and the carriage came to a stand .
four or five minutes afterwards the sitting room window will open .
i think it is time now that we took our friend lestrade into our confidence .
simple !
what did you do next ?
but before we start i must ask you a few questions , mr mortimer tregennis .
ah , bradstreet , how are you ?
what is the use of having powers , doctor , when one has no field upon which to exert them ?
anyhow , i have grasped one fact which you seem to find it difficult to get hold of ,
my dear fellow , i congratulate you .
you will excuse me , i am sure .
they can count on us saying no more than we should .
after all , you have nothing to complain of .
i see that you have had some great trouble ,
perhaps in my next i may be able to throw some light upon this also .
there were no signs that anyone had entered the room , and it is quite certain that anything in the nature of cries or a struggle would have been heard , since caunter , the elder boy in the inner room , is a very light sleeper .
if it takes me all my life i shall get level with you !
i 'll help you to understand just where you are and how you got there .
the men whom we pursued seemed to have taken a curiously zigzag road , with the idea probably of escaping observation .
you cannot throw any new light upon the affair ?
he was kind to her also in his bluff , boisterous fashion , and on the whole they seemed to be a happy couple .
he stretched his hand up , and took down a bulky volume from the shelf .
it was all very bad , no doubt ,
you may be very smart and clever , but the old hound is the best , when all is said and done .
first of all , i want you gentlemen to understand that i have known this lady since she was a child .
it is infallibly deadly , and it is horribly contagious .
i listened , but they were not repeated , and i concluded that they came from outside .
to day is friday .
your hiding place , my dear watson , was very faulty .
if you could have looked into allardyce 's back shop , you would have seen a dead pig swung from a hook in the ceiling , and a gentleman in his shirt sleeves furiously stabbing at it with this weapon .
it was evident to me that things were not going well with him or his quest .
why , this article ,
i cried , slapping the magazine down on the table ,
the man whom i found myself facing was a well built , fresh complexioned young fellow , with a frank , honest face and a slight , crisp , yellow mustache .
the terror is in the hearts of the people from the dusk to the dawn .
now we are making a little progress .
you remember ,
i would dog them and follow them until i saw my opportunity .
it is introspective , and i want to introspect .
serve me right for engaging a man with such a face .
good heavens !
but i have in my hands here a little problem which may prove to be more difficult of solution than my small essay in thought reading .
you have him here ?
i will tell you .
on this our guide knocked with a peculiar postman like rat tat .
this he refuses to do .
that is true ,
his health well , i do n't know that it 's better nor worse for the smoking .
the moon still shone brightly on that angle of the house .
have the carriages been examined for any sign of violence ?
there are thirty nine enormous beryls , and the price of the gold chasing is incalculable .
very good , martha .
lately engaged at coxon woodhouse 's ?
that does not seem a very likely start , does it ?
i know what is the matter with me .
so they have .
the roughs had also fled at the appearance of peterson , so that he was left in possession of the field of battle , and also of the spoils of victory in the shape of this battered hat and a most unimpeachable christmas goose .
we have in our police reports realism pushed to its extreme limits , and yet the result is , it must be confessed , neither fascinating nor artistic .
ah , there is moriarty himself .
red cap .
i was a harum scarum , reckless lad , and he had had an education , and was already marked for the sword belt .
a short walk brought us to a secluded road fringed with pleasant houses , each standing in its own grounds .
for what purpose ?
the inspector and i must have a word with the prisoners , but you will certainly see me back at luncheon time .
oh , let us lose not an instant in bringing help to this poor creature .
the devil seemed to be in him at such times , and he was capable of anything .
a vague thrill ran through me as i listened to my companion 's words and saw the stern gravity which had hardened his features .
i was never a very sociable fellow , watson , always rather fond of moping in my rooms and working out my own little methods of thought , so that i never mixed much with the men of my year .
knowing that my wife would be terribly anxious , i slipped off my ring and confided it to the lascar at a moment when no constable was watching me , together with a hurried scrawl , telling her that she had no cause to fear .
my chance had come at last .
then what is the theory in your mind ?
you can pack our things ,
here he turned swiftly down a narrow passage , passed through a wooden gate into a deserted yard , and then opened with a key the back door of a house .
according to his lights he has been a kind master .
my friend and i are also ready for emergencies .
i believe that that is the village inn over there ?
a small fly or moth had fluttered across our path , and in an instant stapleton was rushing with extraordinary energy and speed in pursuit of it .
when those packets were sealed up , jonas oldacre got mcfarlane to secure one of the seals by putting his thumb upon the soft wax .
our feet creaked and crackled over the bare planking , and my outstretched hand touched a wall from which the paper was hanging in ribbons .
turning round we saw a little rat faced fellow standing in the centre of the circle of yellow light which was thrown by the swinging lamp , while breckinridge , the salesman , framed in the door of his stall , was shaking his fists fiercely at the cringing figure .
where were you when you began to feel bad ?
to smoke ,
the fellow came forward with a somewhat sullen , defiant air , and put down his hands to assist .
he would come .
the two sentries were shot down , and so was a corporal who came running to see what was the matter .
mcginty glanced his eyes over the account of the shooting of one jonas pinto , in the lake saloon , market street , chicago , in the new year week of .
and you can come up to morrow evening , at seven , and let me know how you are getting on .
but who used him roughly ?
it was only when i had joined him there that i heard what had alarmed his quicker senses .
we cannot doubt from what we know of him that he would have found some way out of the difficulty .
her father refused to have anything to do with her because she had married without his consent and perhaps for one or two other reasons as well .
he appears to have a passion for definite and exact knowledge .
but , in my opinion , it comes more in dr watson 's line than ours .
at that 's intelligible enough .
one was a dining room , severely furnished and containing nothing of interest .
we have every hope of clearing the matter up , but we find a little difficulty in getting anything to work upon .
well then , i sha n't tell you .
did he give any explanation of his conduct ?
i give you my word on that ,
there he remained until past eleven at night .
why should i stay here alone ?
yes , sir '
if you will keep the two corner seats i shall get the tickets .
an hour passed and yet another .
he propped his test tube in the rack , and began to lecture with the air of a professor addressing his class it is not really difficult to construct a series of inferences , each dependent upon its predecessor and each simple in itself .
look here , barrymore ,
it was naturally my intention that he should succeed me in my business , but he was not of a business turn .
i am bound to say that in all the accounts which you have been so good as to give of my own small achievements you have habitually underrated your own abilities .
call it crime !
we have been following you about all the morning .
we stood at the window and watched the cab drive away .
she has heard of you , and would have your opinion , though i repeatedly told her that there was nothing which you could do which i had not already done .
whatever his crimes , he has suffered something to atone for them .
it was a magnificent specimen of the jeweller 's art , and the thirty six stones were the finest that i have ever seen .
noiseless and of tremendous power : i knew von herder , the blind german mechanic , who constructed it to the order of the late professor moriarty .
it is no easy matter , and requires a strong and practised arm .
well , good bye ,
i think the time is coming .
the boy died horribly .
oh , do , do take my word for it that he is innocent .
in an instant i had caught him round the waist , and held him up while holmes and pycroft untied the elastic bands which had disappeared between the livid creases of skin .
the question is , what can you make people believe that you have done .
and how did you verify them ?
well , have you got it ?
having made one or two tentative remarks to the nearest miner , and receiving only short , gruff replies , the traveller resigned himself to uncongenial silence , staring moodily out of the window at the fading landscape .
we 'll have the pressmen down like flies when they understand it .
i 'd like you to know before you die .
well , sir , i took no particular notice of his letters .
i felt more than ever that these people knew something of the matter .
holmes stepped up to the window , closed it , and dropped the blinds .
someone is moving in that room ,
with his collar turned up , his shiny , seedy coat , his red cravat , and his worn boots , he was a perfect sample of the class .
then he leaned forward , and in the intense silence we were aware of the soft lapping of agitated water .
he had grown thin and careworn , and had lost the loud , cheery manner for which he had been remarkable .
would it not seem dangerous to you to make so very close a relation between the two incidents ?
having shaken hands with each of us , he was about to sit down , when his eye rested upon the paper with the curious markings , which i had just examined and left upon the table .
they have not shown any sign of being in funds .
no , i solved it ,
i spotted the bottle in which this preparation was kept , and when they were all gone , i helped myself to a little of it .
they could see the lonely watcher fingering his gun , and peering down at them as if dissatisfied at their reply .
in dress now , for example .
if we are pretty quick in catching our men , we are not so quick in condemning them .
another point .
i was shown by this woman into a sitting room , where a frugal supper was laid out .
halloa !
and now , doctor , perhaps you would kindly attend to my thumb , or rather to the place where my thumb used to be .
that will be next monday .
yes , it is correct , as far as it goes .
lestrade had learned by more experiences than he would care to acknowledge that that brain could cut through that which was impenetrable to him .
certainly not ,
then you think that the serpentine plays no part in the matter ?
several women of the labouring class and one or two travellers who might have been small local storekeepers made up the rest of the company , with the exception of one young man in a corner by himself .
you too , doctor , you have taken an interest in the case and may as well stick to us .
the treasurer , carter , was a middle aged man , with an impassive , rather sulky expression , and a yellow parchment skin .
very right !
how has your case prospered ?
we must define the situation a little more clearly .
i am sure of it , mr scott eccles i am sure of it ,
just once more , gentlemen , and all together .
there is nothing against them then but the woman 's character .
i could mention several .
by jove , watson , i 've got it !
there are no inhabitants of this land of despair .
some of them were of the war time and showed that he had done his duty well and had borne the repute of a brave soldier .
yes , sir , i have already read the account in the evening papers .
no one save the printer .
clair was doing in the opium den , what happened to him when there , where is he now , and what hugh boone had to do with his disappearance are all as far from a solution as ever .
but without his collar or tie .
i then hurried forward , and found him standing by the pool .
holmes sat up again .
that was bad enough , for all that the coroner said .
she stood with her figure outlined against the flood of light , one hand upon the door , one half raised in her eagerness , her body slightly bent , her head and face protruded , with eager eyes and parted lips , a standing question .
it is satisfactory to know that there can be no difference of opinion upon this case , since mr lestrade , one of the most experienced members of the official force , and mr sherlock holmes , the well known consulting expert , have each come to the conclusion that the grotesque series of incidents , which have ended in so tragic a fashion , arise from lunacy rather than from deliberate crime .
in this case the matter was simplified by brunton 's intelligence being quite first rate , so that it was unnecessary to make any allowance for the personal equation , as the astronomers have dubbed it .
but i understand that there was a considerable wound .
he looked round him with a furtive and stealthy air , as one who dreads pursuit .
could you ring him up ?
we rushed over the brow of the hill , and there was our man running with great speed down the other side , springing over the stones in his way with the activity of a mountain goat .
the other servants were soon alarmed , and we sent for the local police , who instantly communicated with london .
there was a pause for a few moments , and then the low insidious sound was repeated .
muttered the inspector .
here was the secret of her blanched face , her shaken nerves , her peals of hysterical laughter on the next morning .
she shall not be buried in that ,
in the homely alpine villages or in the lonely mountain passes , i could tell by his quick glancing eyes and his sharp scrutiny of every face that passed us , that he was well convinced that , walk where we would , we could not walk ourselves clear of the danger which was dogging our footsteps .
not as a business matter , for these arrangements are usually verbal , and there was no earthly business reason why this should be an exception .
cried holmes ,
you are welcome to all the official credit , but you must act on the line that i point out .
it is quite clear that the colonel was a cool and desperate man , who was absolutely determined that nothing should stand in the way of his little game , like those out and out pirates who will leave no survivor from a captured ship .
that evening jefferson hope was taken into custody , and not being able to find sureties , was detained for some weeks .
he would not do anything so mad , sir we have provided him with all that he can want .
i told them that they would have occasion to regret their treatment of me , and already my words have come true .
these flashes come upon me at times .
i have usually found that there was method in his madness .
arthur was the most single minded , chivalrous , patriotic man upon earth .
even now they are dark to me .
but , by heavens , cunning as he is , the fellow shall be in my power before another day is past !
this is what they call delirium , i guess ,
that 's not quite good enough , ' answered forbes .
it is probable , therefore , that the crime was either committed when insane , or that its immediate effect was to drive the unhappy woman out of her mind .
his age , she thought , would be rather over thirty than under it .
just tell me what it all means , watson , and i 'll owe you more than ever i can hope to pay .
after the angelic fashion of women , she had borne trouble with a calm face as long as there was some one weaker than herself to support , and i had found her bright and placid by the side of the frightened housekeeper .
i should never marry myself , lest i bias my judgment .
it is so dreadful to think of our dear arthur in prison !
i was inclined from the first to the latter supposition .
they were rich and i was poor , so that it was no easy matter for me to follow them .
however , your man picked her up , and it all ends well .
i crouched down among the bushes on the other side , and crawled from one to the other witness the disreputable state of my trouser knees until i had reached the clump of rhododendrons just opposite to your bedroom window .
how ever did you see that ?
you did n't know this dead man , mccarthy .
holdernesse , th duke , k .
he could not manage it .
her daughter was in the room , too an uncommonly fine girl she is , too she was looking red about the eyes and her lips trembled as i spoke to her .
where was you hid to see all that ?
he would use the baronet in order to convince the stapletons that we were really gone , while we should actually return at the instant when we were likely to be needed .
put her in the chair !
the light was just fading .
lestrade observed .
then reparation is still within your power ,
before examining the room i cross questioned the servants , but only succeeded in eliciting the facts which i have already stated .
where ?
they came more rapidly than before so rapid that it was hard to follow them .
it is perhaps the best possible solution .
there are , however , some cogent reasons against it .
for years past i have continually been conscious of some power behind the malefactor , some deep organizing power which forever stands in the way of the law , and throws its shield over the wrong doer .
it was a blow , baron the worst setback in my whole campaign .
he has arrested not only friend thaddeus , but the gatekeeper , the housekeeper , and the indian servant .
yes , i thought it as well to take them .
i am sure i do n't know .
the spring !
as cuvier could correctly describe a whole animal by the contemplation of a single bone , so the observer who has thoroughly understood one link in a series of incidents should be able to accurately state all the other ones , both before and after .
a second was a bedroom , which also drew blank .
he ran distractedly , his pistol in his hand , towards a gap in the hedge .
there was a rustling , as if he had shaken the sick man roughly by the shoulder .
i have always felt that there was a danger hanging over him .
he was , i remember , extremely well connected , and even when we were all little boys together we knew that his mother 's brother was lord holdhurst , the great conservative politician .
if he had been silent he might have blown the whole thing , but he was a nervous little chap , so he gave a cry of surprise and turned so pale that the man knew what was up in an instant and seized him .
the rapidity with which such a poison would take effect would also , from his point of view , be an advantage .
no stain !
not a soul did i meet all the way down , though a cab or two went past me .
he scribbled a few words upon a leaf from his notebook .
i give it up ,
on no condition ?
there 's genius in that , for who would expect to find such a thing fired from an airgun ?
you have never risen to a greater height .
he certainly died from a revolver wound as reported .
i uncovered my lantern and threw a flood of light upon them .
several young fellows held up their hands .
three loud knocks had sounded at the door .
i 've no pistol ,
she is frankland 's daughter .
holmes was for the moment as startled as i .
the pencil was not an ordinary one .
this train stops at canterbury and there is always at least a quarter of an hour 's delay at the boat .
smack !
we found no signs of violence upon it .
it is teddy baldwin .
the differences are obvious .
i would n't waste an hour in coming to him , sir , or you may not see him alive .
it was in the summer of ' , not long after my marriage , that the events occurred which i am now about to summarise .
he looked very hard at me as i spoke , and it seemed to me that i had never seen so suspicious and questioning an eye .
wait here .
i went home to saxe coburg square , and i took the advice of my assistant .
here is the candle in the window , mr holmes ,
thank you !
but if he is never found , eh ?
holmes smiled , and clapped lestrade upon the shoulder .
for a moment or two i sat breathless , hardly able to believe my ears .
it was a relief to me , after that unnatural restraint , when we at last passed frankland 's house and knew that we were drawing near to the hall and to the scene of action .
epilogue
exactly .
we had all been warned to appear before the magistrates upon the thursday but when the thursday came there was no occasion for our testimony .
lucy laughed through her tears at her father 's description .
i found that i was under the orders of a black villain and caught in a meshwork of crime .
well , you can hear what i say , anyhow .
the case certainly presents more features of interest and more possibility of development than i had originally thought .
for the rest , it was cracked , exceedingly dusty , and spotted in several places , although there seemed to have been some attempt to hide the discoloured patches by smearing them with ink .
how does this bear on the case ?
i have already said that i owe a great deal to his kindness .
i 'll do the criminal part .
with these advantages he bought himself a house , and lived in great luxury .
i sat in the window with the volume in my hand , but my thoughts were far from the daring speculations of the writer .
do you feel a creeping , shrinking sensation , watson , when you stand before the serpents in the zoo , and see the slithery , gliding , venomous creatures , with their deadly eyes and wicked , flattened faces ?
look at it through my lens .
exactly !
door locked , i understand .
i do n't know , sir ,
and leave the litter as it is ?
but at least it covers all the facts .
as it emerged into the moonshine i saw what it was .
from that moment he understood that i had taken over the case in london , and that therefore there was no chance for him there .
when they were gone we looked out of the window again .
it 's the mud settling , or the water rising , or something .
then we shall do it together .
a figure was approaching us over the moor , and i saw the dull red glow of a cigar .
but it is not the print of a monkey .
not here ?
cried our client .
the vicar of the parish , mr roundhay , was something of an archaeologist , and as such holmes had made his acquaintance .
but our doubts will very soon be solved , for here , unless i am much mistaken , is the person in question .
yes , it was her first voyage she had never been from home before .
on one occasion he actually fired his revolver at a wooden legged man , who proved to be a harmless tradesman canvassing for orders .
he pushed his way in , seized me in his mighty arms , hugged me in his bear 's embrace , covered me with kisses , and implored me to come away with him .
thank you , sir ,
and well they strove to keep their vow !
another t .
and was this wooden legged man alone ?
but hush !
much of what i tell you is no doubt quite irrelevant , but still i feel that it is best that i should let you have all the facts and leave you to select for yourself those which will be of most service to you in helping you to your conclusions .
i 'd just the one candle that was in my hand but there was a good light from the hall lamp through the open door .
it was from coombe tracey , and it was addressed in a woman 's hand .
i am liable to these sudden nervous attacks .
she was next of kin , no doubt , and you were aware that the old fellow would make no will .
twice he struck at the chamber door without any reply from within .
i think , colonel , that you and watson might return now , and i will be with you again in an hour at the furthest .
i would ask you one more question , miss stapleton .
he stopped , and held out his manacled hands for the whiskey and water which holmes had brewed for him .
he was a charming youth , and he soon fell into our ways .
the maid 's name was lucretia venucci , and there is no doubt in my mind that this pietro who was murdered two nights ago was the brother .
and i think that your time will not be misspent , for there are points about the case which promise to make it an absolutely unique one .
to my horror i perceived that the yellow blossoms were all dabbled with crimson .
is to read the following letter from division master windle of merton county lodge .
i have made my dark room up there .
still , that little may as well be cleared up to make the case complete .
if elsie wished to tell me she would .
good night .
arthur mounted , and they set off together .
i sat in silence wondering what on earth could be his reason for kidnapping me in this extraordinary fashion .
i 'm bringing home the bacon at last .
simon , but it was dreadful hard before his mother and all those great people .
or did he drop it in the carriage ?
an agent from such a society makes his way into the house , waits for mr douglas , blows his head nearly off with this weapon , and escapes by wading the moat , after leaving a card beside the dead man , which will , when mentioned in the papers , tell other members of the society that vengeance has been done .
the lamp was on the table so i lit it .
did they ever show any apprehension of coming danger ?
by degrees he made friends in the neighbourhood , and in he married the daughter of a local brewer , by whom he now has two children .
she coloured and hesitated .
he took her hand for an instant in his own ,
here it is !
our companion patted her thin , work worn hand , and murmured some few words of kindly womanly comfort which brought the color back into the others bloodless cheeks .
it had been a severe winter , and the snow lay deep in the gorges of the gilmerton mountains .
true , if i found it it would probably put her forever beyond my reach .
it was given out that he had either thrown himself overboard or fallen overboard in the heavy weather that we were having .
you must bear in mind , that the royal party made head in england even after the death of the king , and that when they at last fled they probably left many of their most precious possessions buried behind them , with the intention of returning for them in more peaceful times .
i had not begun to undress , and i was sitting by the fire in my bedroom when i heard the report .
it 's mum with me so long as i see you living on the straight ,
having laid out all these luxuries , my two visitors vanished away , like the genii of the arabian nights , with no explanation save that the things had been paid for and were ordered to this address .
your task is confined to that .
mcginty flushed an angry red and then burst into a roar of laughter .
what are my duties ?
this is recent , quite recent .
mr holmes , why , you are even a quicker smoker than i am myself .
early in my father received a letter from india which was a great shock to him .
oh , the cunning rascal !
my dear fellow , it is nearly nine , and the landlady babbled of green peas at seven thirty .
he could hide his hound , but he could not hush its voice , and hence came those cries which even in daylight were not pleasant to hear .
women are naturally secretive , and they like to do their own secreting .
her father is very rich ?
were , as you may imagine , much excited as to the treasure which my father had spoken of .
fancy his having the insolence to confound me with the official detective force !
there is danger may come very soon one .
she then called for miss morrison , a young lady who lives in the next villa , and the two went off together to their meeting .
exactly ,
the ' lone star ' had arrived here last week .
i should be very glad .
holmes replaced the bill in his notebook .
that is clear and concise .
i have walked out with her each evening , and i have talked with her .
the famous air gun of von herder will embellish the scotland yard museum , and once again mr sherlock holmes is free to devote his life to examining those interesting little problems which the complex life of london so plentifully presents .
it is really immaterial who i am , but since the matter seems to interest you , mr von bork , i may say that this is not my first acquaintance with the members of your family .
well , one fine day the crash came .
this , then , was the explanation of the stealthy expeditions at night and the light at the window .
the fact is , watson , that this gentleman upon the sofa was a bit too good for our people .
but , surely , it was obvious .
you do find it very hard to tackle the facts .
hope slapped the revolver butt which protruded from the front of his tunic .
cried holmes .
of course it has the sort of excitement about it that the sportsman feels when he lies beside the water course and waits for the big game .
he tried to stagger to his feet but he was still ghastly pale and trembling in every limb .
i am with you heart and soul ,
she ran down a corridor , which she imagined to be that by which she had come both were lined with cocoanut matting and it was only when it was too late that she understood that she had taken the wrong passage , and that her retreat was cut off behind her .
this , i suppose , is he .
neither of them had time to speak , however , before there was a tap at the door , and the spokesman of the street arabs , young wiggins , introduced his insignificant and unsavoury person .
then i heard a gentle creaking as the window was very slowly opened .
, ' scrawled upon it in pencil .
but he had not that supreme gift of the artist , the knowledge of when to stop .
cried the man below .
there was a long pause which showed that he had stopped .
nothing in all this ,
lestrade laughed .
come , come , bannister !
they have secured the whole gang with the exception of him .
i assure you that i am armed to the teeth , and i am perfectly prepared to use my weapons , knowing that the law will support me .
, which is my usual train .
nothing to complain of .
what are you all afraid of ?
with indomitable patience and perseverance , jefferson hope possessed also a power of sustained vindictiveness , which he may have learned from the indians amongst whom he had lived .
they must be cunning devils ,
i have been a governess for five years ,
only to ask a few questions of a greek gentleman who is visiting us , and to let us have the answers .
until then i should like to keep this photograph , found in the dead man 's pocket .
for weeks and for months we dug and delved in every part of the garden , without discovering its whereabouts .
so disturbed was i that i determined to see a little more of the new inmates of the cottage .
there is no communication between them , but they all open out into the same corridor .
by the way , mortimer ,
the old pattern is good enough ,
it has been kept carefully in a pocket book for the one side is as clean as the other .
it occurred only last night .
as if i would carry such things , and me a suspected man , and captain marvin after speaking to me this very day at the depot !
well up in belladonna , opium , and poisons generally .
led on by some rudimentary aspirations towards right , and encouraged by the judicious stimulation of an occasional ten pound note sent to him by devious methods , he has once or twice given me advance information which has been of value that highest value which anticipates and prevents rather than avenges crime .
it 's a lie !
and as you value your life do not go across the moor in any direction save along the straight path which leads from merripit house to the grimpen road , and is your natural way home .
the other being , i presume , professor moriarty .
neither of us needed to be told who that visitor was .
well , my dear sir , knowing the vindictive character of his old associates , he was trying to hide his own identity from everybody as long as he could .
there is a door here which he might have attempted .
come in here for a moment , behind the bar .
the work of birdy edwards was complete .
can i speak confidentially ?
it 's this part from the top of the page .
no doubt the object of our journey was to catch him in the very act , and i could not but admire the cunning with which my friend had inserted a wrong clue in the evening paper , so as to give the fellow the idea that he could continue his scheme with impunity .
some facts should be suppressed , or at least a just sense of proportion should be observed in treating them .
i should like to have a peep at each of them ,
one could but say that it was black and leathery and that it bore some resemblance to a dwarfish , human figure .
one thing i swear to you , and that is that when i wrote the letter i never dreamed of any harm to the old gentleman , who had been my kindest friend .
i could stand it no longer , for my nerves are not what they used to be .
mcmurdo found himself under sentence of banishment both from his comfortable quarters and from the girl whom he loved .
this fiend has several imprudent letters imprudent , watson , nothing worse which were written to an impecunious young squire in the country .
mr alec stopped to see if he could help the dying man , and so the villain got clean away .
i take it for granted that since dawn every constable within forty miles has been looking out for a wet stranger ?
how did the burglar know no one would hear it ?
when he was ruined i came to the college as servant , but i never forgot my old employer because he was down in the world .
i woke up in a strange room , as it seemed to me , and made my way out into the street in a sort of dazed way when you were absent .
i saw him rejoin his guest , and i crept quietly back to where my companions were waiting to tell them what i had seen .
i was afraid that you were engaged .
it is clear that some time has elapsed since this harold established these relations with the girl some weeks , at any rate since the brother in greece has had time to hear of it and come across .
he is small for his age , with a head which is quite disproportionately large .
he ran as far as the corner , and then , seeing my cab , he hailed me and jumped in .
now , sir , you must see that after bannister 's words your position is hopeless , and that your only chance lies in a frank confession .
no , i cannot !
i happen to know who is the first link in his chain a chain with this napoleon gone wrong at one end , and a hundred broken fighting men , pickpockets , blackmailers , and card sharpers at the other , with every sort of crime in between .
why was that ?
this is not quite correct , however ,
that 's just his little peculiarity ,
we may take it as a working hypothesis that is the particular page to which the cipher refers .
the train pulled up at a small wayside station and we all descended .
from the room above came a shout , a cry for help , and then the sound of trampling feet and of falling chairs .
i fear , your grace , that matters can hardly be arranged so easily .
the horrible screams of the dead manager 's wife pursued them as they hurried to the town .
they both disappeared utterly and completely .
i could see that you were commiserating me over my weakness ,
i must be frank with you ,
no sign of it ?
a summons , a bogus appointment , and all would be over .
it had taken me an hour to come down .
so as the fog bank flowed onward we fell back before it until we were half a mile from the house , and still that dense white sea , with the moon silvering its upper edge , swept slowly and inexorably on .
it was one bird , i imagine in which you were interested white , with a black bar across the tail .
his attack did not last long , however , for when we undid his collar , and sprinkled the water from one of the finger glasses over his face , he gave a gasp or two and sat up .
the one unpleasant thing about the house , which struck me at once , was the appearance and conduct of the servants .
footprints ?
this is my friend , dr watson , before whom you can speak as freely as before myself .
it was evident that the fiery temper of the baskervilles was not extinct in this their last representative .
that was grotesque enough in the outset , and yet it ended in a desperate attempt at robbery .
sometimes i wish that it never had .
but surely , holmes , character goes for something ?
i have had some confidential talks with mr james wilder , his grace 's secretary .
i could not myself see the bearing of this incident , but i clearly perceived that holmes was weaving it into the general scheme which he had formed in his brain .
well , well , i 'll drop past history and get down to present day facts .
either the fear of the law or the duke 's purse will certainly get out of them all that they know .
a courteous red faced old gentleman represented the railway company .
but to day i have been over the drawings again , and i am not so sure of it .
a simple case , and yet , in some ways , an instructive one ,
it is a mercy that you are on the side of the force , and not against it , mr holmes ,
he glanced at his agenda paper ,
there were meetings , and an engagement , which would finally secure the girl 's affections from turning towards anyone else .
this man 's occupation is gone .
he drove her .
yes , sir , only once .
clearly an army doctor , then .
then a very surprising circumstance occurred , which i shall tell you in due course .
very good , barrymore .
stapleton was the cause of the interruption .
i have made a special study of cigar ashes in fact , i have written a monograph upon the subject .
so did i .
but at any time , day or night , a telegram would bring me down to your help .
there was no rain , as holmes had foretold , and the morning broke bright and cloudless .
who goes there ?
i say now , as i said then , that a man should keep his little brain attic stocked with all the furniture that he is likely to use , and the rest he can put away in the lumber room of his library , where he can get it if he wants it .
and then you will say nothing to him at all until i have made up my mind about the matter .
it may be most obvious to you in the greek e 's , but to me there are many small points which indicate the same thing .
by jove !
the worst of the story is ,
at three o'clock in the afternoon there was a loud peal at the bell , an authoritative voice in the hall , and , to my surprise , no less a person than mr athelney jones was shown up to me .
i therefore smoked a great number of those excellent cigarettes , and i dropped the ash all over the space in front of the suspected bookcase .
it was a lady 's hand bag which stood upon the study table a trim little handbag of crocodile skin and silver .
you would not inform ?
there 's twenty six of them , which makes one for you , and one for us , and two dozen for the market .
as we looked , we saw a dark blur moving across the blind .
our difficulties are not over ,
it was unsigned , and ran thus :
i 'll bear what you have said in mind , and maybe some day i 'll come back to it .
do n't we ?
we waited half an hour at the window before a train stopped .
you will remember that i remarked the other day , just before we went into the very simple problem presented by miss mary sutherland , that for strange effects and extraordinary combinations we must go to life itself , which is always far more daring than any effort of the imagination .
there is something that has not come out , and that housekeeper knows it .
before they come ,
most vitally important .
i had a jezail bullet through it some time before , and , though it did not prevent me from walking , it ached wearily at every change of the weather .
i spent a few minutes in assisting a venerable italian priest , who was endeavoring to make a porter understand , in his broken english , that his luggage was to be booked through to paris .
you have really got it !
i was still annoyed at his bumptious style of conversation .
sometimes i assure you i can hardly understand him .
on inquiry , i found that there was a steward on board of the name of james browner and that he had acted during the voyage in such an extraordinary manner that the captain had been compelled to relieve him of his duties .
very hard .
you do not think ,
that will do .
willoughby smith had excellent sight ,
we can show nothing against him .
late last night mrs hudson , our landlady , brought up a message that a gentleman wished to see mr holmes , and that the matter was of the utmost importance .
which way did the woman go ?
suddenly , as i looked , he rose from his chair , and walking over to a bureau at the side , he unlocked it and drew out one of the drawers .
there are three hundred pounds in gold and seven hundred in notes ,
sensational literature .
a vague feeling of impending misfortune impressed me .
someone in the next room had lit a dark lantern .
it opened upon the grassy space which lay in front of the hall door .
no , no , sir no , not against you !
there are two ways out of the room ,
my dear mr holmes :
well , taken with the disappearance of the man 's companions , i should say that they were in some way concerned in the murder and had fled from justice .
admirable !
i went to my work as usual at ten o'clock , but the door was shut and locked , with a little square of cardboard hammered on to the middle of the panel with a tack .
now put the key on the inside .
if a pack can track a trailed herring across a shire , how far can a specially trained hound follow so pungent a smell as this ?
surely enough , a note awaited us at baker street .
important .
because i had a wire from hilton cubitt this morning .
i can n't see the traces now , but they were clear to me then .
his carriage is at his door now ,
so desirable in every way were the apartments , and so moderate did the terms seem when divided between us , that the bargain was concluded upon the spot , and we at once entered into possession .
kindly turn round and motion to him to go away .
during that time she ran free in a mining camp and wandered through woods or mountains , so that her education has come from nature rather than from the schoolmaster .
it is the lady eva blackwell , the most beautiful debutante of last season .
he was a dark , sallow , clean shaven , silent person , but he had polite manners and a pleasant smile .
if we could fly out of that window hand in hand , hover over this great city , gently remove the roofs , and peep in at the queer things which are going on , the strange coincidences , the plannings , the cross purposes , the wonderful chains of events , working through generations , and leading to the most outr results , it would make all fiction with its conventionalities and foreseen conclusions most stale and unprofitable .
and they reckon you to be some spy .
under such circumstances , i naturally gravitated to london , that great cesspool into which all the loungers and idlers of the empire are irresistibly drained .
on the contrary , i have noticed that when he is off the trail he generally says so .
never shall i forget the duke 's appearance as he sprang up and clawed with his hands , like one who is sinking into an abyss .
how do you think he found out where the treasure was ?
do you think there is no weaker brother among all our lodges that could not be bought ?
my dear watson , try a little analysis yourself ,
arthur !
i rode back , but again saw nothing of the carriage , and now , as you perceive , it has returned after me .
i determined , therefore , that for the next few days i would always carry the case backward and forward with me , so that it might never be really out of my reach .
it was only when i touched his arm that he roused himself with a violent start and stepped out of the carriage .
no , i had been staying with a friend ,
we 'll make the coats of some of these soldiers redder than ever the tailor did .
it was done by a thick pen , and these are fine .
his conduct was certainly not very gracious .
might i ask ,
he being the heir ?
a young doctor , named verner , had purchased my small kensington practice , and given with astonishingly little demur the highest price that i ventured to ask an incident which only explained itself some years later , when i found that verner was a distant relation of holmes , and that it was my friend who had really found the money .
i kept my distance from her , and i wore a beard , so that she should not recognize me , for she is a good and high spirited girl , and she would n't have stayed in my employment long if she had thought that i was following her about the country roads .
it has not yet found its way either into the pharmacopoeia or into the literature of toxicology .
we think , therefore , that he has gone , and the outlying farmers sleep the better in consequence .
you will , i am sure , forgive anything that may be wanting in our arrangements , when you consider the blow which has come so suddenly upon us .
he cried , at last springing from his chair and pacing wildly up and down the room
it is our friend sir henry 's missing boot .
he led the way to a glass case in a corner , and pointed to the inscription .
it means that it is all over ,
i exclaimed .
that painting was by jean baptiste greuze .
no , no of course not .
i foresaw the difficulty of arousing him , so i gathered some gravel from the pile which you have mentioned , and i used it to throw up to his window .
still more surprised was he on entering to find two young men in possession of his sitting room .
yes , for strangers to travel ,
gregson pushed it open .
again i heard from her own lips things that made my blood boil , and again i cursed this brute who mishandled the woman i loved .
next instant i spotted a boot under the window curtain , and then i saw why plain enough .
apply them , and it will be instructive to compare results .
there was never any mystery in the matter , though , as i said yesterday , some of the details are of interest .
make her do all she can !
no man ever had a more faithful mate .
it is true that i have not married ,
i cannot imagine how i came to be so weak .
have you informed the police ?
it is a bijou villa , with a garden at the back , but built out in front right up to the road , two stories .
i am sir henry 's friend , and his welfare is a very close concern of mine .
the purport is perfectly clear .
would you mind reading me the advertised description of mr hosmer angel ?
is it possible ?
that mr douglas of birlstone manor house was horribly murdered last night !
i have to study him , i assure you .
what is your evidence for this , brother mcmurdo ?
i can hardly explain to you how interested i am in this matter .
my name 's jack mcmurdo see ?
it may not come to that ,
and yet there have been times when the poor girl has wanted to speak , and yet could not quite bring herself to take the plunge .
things had indeed been very slow with us , and i had learned to dread such periods of inaction , for i knew by experience that my companion 's brain was so abnormally active that it was dangerous to leave it without material upon which to work .
as you saw , i discovered a thorn which had been driven or shot with no great force into the scalp .
each ear is as a rule quite distinctive and differs from all other ones .
did he say anything more ?
it was early , there were folk upon the roads , they were afraid of being seen with the silver , so they sank it in the pond , intending to return for it when the coast was clear .
she was a fine tall woman , black and quick and fierce , with a proud way of carrying her head , and a glint from her eye like a spark from a flint .
everything is carried to a certain door , which forms the one connection .
there only remains one difficulty .
it is true that in some cases the figure was bearing a flag , and in some cases not , but it was probable , from the way in which the flags were distributed , that they were used to break the sentence up into words .
she explained .
rolling pasture lands curved upward on either side of us , and old gabled houses peeped out from amid the thick green foliage , but behind the peaceful and sunlit countryside there rose ever , dark against the evening sky , the long , gloomy curve of the moor , broken by the jagged and sinister hills .
my mind ran upon our late visitor , her smiles , the deep rich tones of her voice , the strange mystery which overhung her life .
the boodle .
and a good many fresh facts have come out .
we picked you up when you were starving in the desert , we shared our food with you , led you safe to the chosen valley , gave you a goodly share of land , and allowed you to wax rich under our protection .
i knew that we should find a ventilator before ever we came to stoke moran .
what is the next move ?
i 've always been on my guard since then , though i have no idea how you know it .
every time that i closed my eyes i saw before me the distorted baboon like countenance of the murdered man .
then he struck a rock , bounded off , and splashed into the water .
a weary looking police sergeant reclined in the corner .
danger is part of my trade , ' i remarked .
my friend mortimer told me .
that is john hebron , of atlanta ,
and to think that you should come to me , heart of my heart , and i should find nothing better to do than to want to strangle you !
admiration was , i repeat , the first impression .
she was at the doorway , and came down to meet him .
then , again , i have heard it is no use your applying if your hair is light red , or dark red , or anything but real bright , blazing , fiery red .
it is all very bad .
he was always warmed by genuine admiration the characteristic of the real artist .
only when all these precautions had been taken and tested did he turn his sunburned aquiline face to his guest .
her eyes blazed at me , and she tapped the ground impatiently with her foot .
all this , however , is foreign to the mission on which you sent me and will probably be very uninteresting to your severely practical mind .
percy phelps sank back in his chair .
it was stuffed with papers .
on the morning after the death of the hound the fog had lifted and we were guided by mrs stapleton to the point where they had found a pathway through the bog .
your leaving the room gave him the chance he wanted .
on the whole , as the wind was coming round to the north , we thought that sierra leone might be best , and turned our head in that direction , the bark being at that time nearly hull down on our starboard quarter .
his pale lips quivered as he listened to the dreadful experience which had befallen his family , and his dark eyes seemed to reflect something of the horror of the scene .
no , no , sir , it is nothing nothing at all !
they were all three standing in a knot in front of the altar .
to mr cunningham 's ?
he would , probably , for a time at least , continue to perform his duties .
it was easier to know it than to explain why i knew it .
that was the pith of the information with which holmes left the office of the adelaide southampton company .
three times a day for many months i had witnessed this performance , but custom had not reconciled my mind to it .
he gasped from time to time .
the detectives and i must have echoed it , when we were aware of a man who seemed to have emerged from the wall , who advanced now from the gloom of the corner in which he had appeared .
this was a special body raised by the railways and colliery owners to supplement the efforts of the ordinary civil police , who were perfectly helpless in the face of the organized ruffianism which terrorized the district .
i have brought you something which is worth all the news in the world .
was the wicket gate closed ?
this ring
the village sergeant , a tall , formal , melancholy man , still held his vigil in the room of fate .
i cried .
a plausible lawyer could make it out as an act of self defence .
your people were in their usual spirits ?
other people besides you have self respect , and even reputations .
i never was more glad to see anyone in my life ,
as he has himself said , it is no possible business of his .
it was the note with which holmes had decoyed him .
oh , that 's your ruling , is it ?
twice they tried to get at him and failed a third time , you see , it came off .
i have hitherto confined my investigations to this world ,
even now we have no clear case against this very wily man .
let us go round .
exactly .
that is natural enough , and i am glad that he should understand her value .
but if you think that he has acted from motives which are not criminal , and which he would wish to have known , then you cannot serve him better than by telling us the whole story .
at the same time ,
i have the best proofs that it would be so .
this promises to be a most interesting and unusual case ,
but how ?
it was one of four which stood back some little way from the street , two being occupied and two empty .
the three men having ascended the stairs , which they did on tiptoe , the elder man first , the younger man second , and the unknown man in the rear
mcmurdo picked up his leather gripsack and was about to start off into the darkness , when one of the miners accosted him .
great !
but at that time it will be in the hands of the lady 's husband .
surely the inference is plain .
it is very probable , therefore , that in the absence of his master it was he who cared for the hound , though he may never have known the purpose for which the beast was used .
joseph a villain and a thief !
the only question was whether it was still there .
, and then we will drop into one of the bond street picture galleries and fill in the time until we are due at the hotel .
oh , we shall soon clear up all that ,
thank you .
all six there ?
exactly .
holmes snorted his contempt .
simple as it has been in its leading features , it has none the less presented surprising difficulties in the way of an arrest .
one is mr harris , of bermondsey , and the other is mr price , of this town ,
ere he could stagger to his feet the sikh was upon him , and buried his knife twice in his side .
these are very deep waters ,
on the left was a large , deep fireplace , with a massive , overhanging oak mantelpiece .
the story of the stapletons could no longer be withheld from him , but he took the blow bravely when he learned the truth about the woman whom he had loved .
cover him , patrolman , while i disarm him .
holmes sprang frantically across the room and pushed at the door .
more than that .
i arrest you on the charge of the murder of one victor savage ,
you see it is really confined to londoners , and to grown men .
but percy ?
so when i saw you throw down your paper and enter upon a train of thought , i was very happy to have the opportunity of reading it off , and eventually of breaking into it , as a proof that i had been in rapport with you .
yes , let it proceed , by all means .
yes , sir , i fear that i am a little late , but the trains were awkward .
i must warn you that your words will be taken down , and may be used against you .
we shall look out for you , then , at six .
i daresay that if i had put pounds down in front of him , that man would not have given me such complete information as was drawn from him by the idea that he was doing me on a wager .
two of the warders were agents of prendergast , and the second mate was his right hand man .
the rest is of the greyish colour , which shows that blotting paper has been used .
none at all .
he has had a fall .
no figures could express them .
dear sir :
his frank acceptance of the situation marks him as either an innocent man , or else as a man of considerable self restraint and firmness .
she came in just now by the back door .
and one more question , dr mortimer .
for an instant i could have sworn that the faintest shadow of a smile flickered over the woman 's lips .
by the way , there is one curious little point about those papers which may serve us as the starting point for an inquiry .
and so did i ,
but i could not rest , watson , i could not sit quiet in my chair , if i thought that such a man as professor moriarty were walking the streets of london unchallenged .
yes , the ally !
i left the ship and came home , thinking what a surprise it would be for my wife , and hoping that maybe she would be glad to see me so soon .
oh , i am so frightened !
that would hardly do ,
let us see if we can get a glimpse of him .
he has made it for himself .
it 's no good by day .
well , we can soon determine that .
he flicked the horse with his whip , and we dashed away through the endless succession of sombre and deserted streets , which widened gradually , until we were flying across a broad balustraded bridge , with the murky river flowing sluggishly beneath us .
to act the spy upon a friend was a hateful task .
it is evidently an empty flat to which the confederate has access .
in that case we had better discuss it in a cosy room rather than in this wind swept market place ,
he stopped his work and took his old friend by the shoulders
gregory , let me recommend to your attention this singular epidemic among the sheep .
but there was no great difficulty in the first stage of my adventure .
maybe , captain marvin , if you and i were alone and face to face you would not take me so easily .
a single narrow iron clamped door formed the only means of entrance .
he computes the value of the jewels at not less than half a million sterling .
my dear fellow , he will guard it as the apple of his eye .
the rattle of our wheels died away as we drove through drifts of rotting vegetation sad gifts , as it seemed to me , for nature to throw before the carriage of the returning heir of the baskervilles .
yes , i opened it .
well , your own good sense will suggest what measures i took next .
i rose and examined carefully the different billets of wood which were scattered round the floor .
windle has never refused us when we have had occasion to ask for the loan of a man or two , and it is not for us to refuse him .
then and there they would have plunged their knives into me could they have seen how to escape the consequences of the deed .
we were to provide both the officers with charts of the part of the agra fort and mark the place in the wall where the treasure was hid .
there were seven of us in a gang in chicago , and elsie 's father was the boss of the joint .
i have to use this room as a place of business ,
as he held the match nearer , i saw that it was more than a stain .
i did at first ,
and also with the result of causing it to turn upon its master at the other side .
they had sat down to their breakfast when lucy with a cry of surprise pointed upwards .
i fancy that i see your grace 's check book upon the table ,
let me show you the evolution of this case so far as i have been able to follow it .
this so called blessington is , as i expected , well known at headquarters , and so are his assailants .
but if the blow falls which is forever hanging over me , then i should wish you to read this , that you may know straight from me how far i have been to blame .
it was the clank of the levers and the swish of the leaking cylinder .
surely this is the beginning of a second word .
mr jabez wilson started up in his chair , with his forefinger upon the paper , but his eyes upon my companion .
petrified with astonishment , the lad slipped on some clothes and waited there in the dark to see what would come of this strange affair .
on the second page were the printed letters c .
the key of the outer door , the key of the office , and the key of the safe .
that , of course , proves nothing at all ,
she cried
the most unusual thing of all , as it seems to me , is that the lady should be tied to the chair .
may i ask , sir , what you did then ?
for an hour he droned away upon his violin , endeavouring to soothe his own ruffled spirits .
having found nothing they tried to divert suspicion by making it appear to be an ordinary burglary , to which end they carried off whatever they could lay their hands upon .
i had one sent to every paper this morning immediately after the affair .
all was absolute silence behind us .
were they nervous people ?
there 's hope yet .
there was no lamp near , and the window was thick with dust , so that we could only just discern each other 's figures within .
his little fan of yellow light shone upon a low window .
a man of business habits and some force of character .
only just as he was leaving he turned round and he said : ' it might interest you to know that you have been driving mr sherlock holmes .
his eager face still wore that expression of intense and high strung energy , which showed me that some novel and suggestive circumstance had opened up a stimulating line of thought .
on the other hand , it has frequently happened that he has been concerned in some research where the facts have been of the most remarkable and dramatic character , but where the share which he has himself taken in determining their causes has been less pronounced than i , as his biographer , could wish .
at present it is not too much to say that it is of such weight it may have an influence upon european history .
the speckled band !
that is where he comes within my purview .
i 'll put the words out of my head i swear i will .
the leader of the gang .
the idea did cross my mind .
he came of the old masterful baskerville strain and was the very image , they tell me , of the family picture of old hugo .
he was more than six feet high , was in the prime of life , had small feet for his height , wore coarse , square toed boots and smoked a trichinopoly cigar .
good bye it is just possible that i may have to come over here again before evening .
i cried with all the enthusiasm of a man fresh from the fogs of baker street .
he has a good deal to thank you for , and so have i ,
having got so far , my next step was , of course , to examine into the details of the crime , and to see how far they would help us .
at the sound of my foot fall she sprang to her feet , however , and a bright flush of surprise and of pleasure colored her pale cheeks .
mr and mrs rucastle were both downstairs , and the child was with them , so that i had an admirable opportunity .
ah , that 's the question , of course .
again a swift change passed over the heavy , unshaven face .
born in new jersey in the year .
that is enough .
we can n't arrest without her evidence , that is clear , so the sooner we get a statement the better .
now , let us calmly define our position , watson ,
i can make a couple out of black silk .
it was a homely little room , with a low ceiling and a gaping fireplace , after the fashion of old country houses .
you must know , with your wide experience of turf matters , colonel ross , that it is possible to make a slight nick upon the tendons of a horse 's ham , and to do it subcutaneously , so as to leave absolutely no trace .
all knowledge comes useful to the detective ,
the proceedings seemed to have come to a definite end so far as he was concerned for one had only to look at that granite face to realize that no peine forte et dure would ever force him to plead against his will .
it is a capital mistake to theorize in advance of the facts .
well , the snuff , then , and the freemasonry ?
are you satisfied ?
but you will come on , will you not , and see merripit house ?
already he had earned the reputation of a good boon companion , a cheery reveller , and withal a man of high temper , who would not take an insult even from the all powerful boss himself .
i drove to the place about two miles on the south side of esher .
surely your memory deceives you ,
i doubt it .
my god !
i examined the ground carefully in the hope of finding it ,
no old ones , but plenty of beeches .
and i say east ,
very interesting reading it might be made , too ,
there was high revel in the lodge room at the union house that night , not only over the killing of the manager and engineer of the crow hill mine , which would bring this organization into line with the other blackmailed and terror stricken companies of the district , but also over a distant triumph which had been wrought by the hands of the lodge itself .
his face was disturbed and troubled , while his clothes were disarranged and untidy .
but the farm ?
clair had her lunch , started for the city , did some shopping , proceeded to the company 's office , got her packet , and found herself at exactly : walking through swandam lane on her way back to the station .
well , very soon i found that i was saving considerable sums of money .
right hand top corner of a page .
another point : i made it my business to hunt down some of moriarty 's checks lately just common innocent checks that he pays his household bills with .
what , then ?
the leader alone retained his stern , impressive expression .
in the blue vault of the heaven there had appeared three little specks which increased in size every moment , so rapidly did they approach .
there are certainly grave difficulties in the way ,
he apologized for having disturbed me so late , saying that it was nearly one o'clock .
now , what did he want with eccles ?
we had hardly settled down in it , and mrs warren left us , when a distant tinkle announced that our mysterious neighbour had rung .
is she alive ?
sherlock holmes rubbed his hands with delight , and i stared with astonishment at our client .
it consists of a number of absurd little figures dancing across the paper upon which they are drawn .
well , i 'll let you know what i think when i have seen more ,
there 's the print of wooden leg 's hand ,
how , in the name of good fortune , did you know all that , mr holmes ?
mrs douglas had visitors to tea ,
when i found that he was devoted to me and would do anything to serve me , i saw my chance of escape .
half a mile farther this opened into another broad road , and the trail turned hard to the right in the direction of the town , which we had just quitted .
let us hear how you arrived at this most gratifying result .
why , of course i knew that you had not written a letter , since i sat opposite to you all morning .
suddenly , however , as i sat writing , he ceased to give any answer at all to my inquiries , and on my turning towards him i was shocked to see that he was sitting bolt upright in his chair , staring at me with a perfectly blank and rigid face .
so much is observation .
a most careful search had failed to discover it in the room .
he is very ill ,
the odds are enormously against your finding it .
well , it is of no great consequence , at any rate .
with the policeman we both hurried down , but only to find the street full of traffic , many people coming and going , but all only too eager to get to a place of safety upon so wet a night .
it was incredible how slowly the hours crawled by , and yet we were helped through it by the same sort of patient interest which the hunter must feel as he watches the trap into which he hopes the game may wander .
there was something else which she would fain have said , and she stabbed with her finger into the air in the direction of the doctor 's room , but a fresh convulsion seized her and choked her words .
i was measuring how tall a man would need to be in order to see , as he passed , what papers were on the central table .
feeling sure that the window had been open at the time of the tragedy , i conceived that there might have been a third person in the affair , who stood outside this opening and fired through it .
it is to him that this trophy belongs .
the woman , without a word , had raised her veil and dropped the mantle from her chin .
i reined up my horse , wondering which way i should turn , but at that moment i saw thick smoke curling up from abelwhite 's bungalow and the flames beginning to burst through the roof .
then let us hurry to him at once to let him know that the truth is known .
my fault lies in the fact that we concealed not only the body , but also the treasure , and that i have clung to morstan 's share as well as to my own .
it was garcia , then , who had an enterprise , and apparently a criminal enterprise , in hand that night in the course of which he met his death .
quite happy ,
a child would know silver blaze , with his white forehead and his mottled off foreleg .
he had a brisk kind of way with him and spoke sharply , like a man who knew the value of time .
he was dressed in a heavy broadcloth frock coat and waistcoat , with light coloured trousers , and immaculate collar and cuffs .
never mind ,
you take my breath away !
in their eyes this competition between them for the maiden 's hand was the highest of honours both to her and her father .
and this ?
that is certainly the dining room .
i 'll be perfectly frank with you , and if it suits you it will suit me very well .
was it she who gave the alarm ?
well , sir , when i came into this room yesterday , when the alarm was given , the very first thing i saw was mr gilchrist 's tan gloves a lying in that chair .
then , how can i assist you ?
we 're not jealous of you at scotland yard .
any questions , mr holmes ?
i am quite wakeful now .
this fellow hayes had shod his horses with shoes which counterfeited the tracks of cows .
at last i got clear , but by the time i had opened the door and reached the house the creature was gone .
he was able to prove an alibi which could not be shaken .
that is understood , then ?
it is , however , very suggestive .
i frowned and drew my hand away .
one evening , after the child was in bed , i began to amuse myself by examining the furniture of my room and by rearranging my own little things .
through the skylight .
beside the fireplace was a heavy oaken chair with arms and cross bars at the bottom .
yes , all .
he wanted me to go with his wife to germany yesterday , but that would hardly have suited your plans , would it , sir ?
of course , it must be a mere chance about the glasses .
we are willing to give pounds a quarter , or pounds a year , so as to recompense you for any little inconvenience which our fads may cause you .
how he died !
oh , jack , do n't let me hear you speak so !
not yet but i have the means of making them .
what use was it for me , a wretched cripple , to go back to england or to make myself known to my old comrades ?
there , watson , this infernal case has haunted me for ten days .
a yellow bar falling across the black foreground showed that the door was not quite closed , and one window in the upper story was brightly illuminated .
just step outside , sergeant , and you , mr sholto .
that is interesting ,
if you meant no more than this when you first spoke to me , why should you not wish your brother to overhear what you said ?
yes it is benares metal work .
she died , and left this one child , whom for her sake i have cherished and cared for .
for two days after this brunton was most assiduous in his attention to his duties .
of all the problems which have been submitted to my friend , mr sherlock holmes , for solution during the years of our intimacy , there were only two which i was the means of introducing to his notice that of mr hatherley 's thumb , and that of colonel warburton 's madness .
ah , that 's good !
i heard no more .
if you have heard anything of my unhappy history you will know that i made a rash marriage and had reason to regret it .
an instant later our door opened , and a tall young man entered the room .
twice he was walking , and once he ran swiftly , so that the soles are deeply marked and the heels hardly visible .
therefore she is lying also .
that is singular , because you sat down in that chair over yonder near the corner .
sure , my darlin ' , you do n't know what it is you are asking .
he never lost his grip but he got it butt downward for a moment too long .
well , you shall hear from me to morrow .
i wrote my articles and thought little more of the matter until , some time later , i backed a bill for a friend and had a writ served upon me for pounds .
well , when i called last week i was shown into the little office as usual , but i found that miss stoper was not alone .
it struck me that the whole proceeding could hardly be for the purpose of making a fool of me , and that the main object must be to get out of the rent .
well , sir , what of that ?
the man met his death elsewhere , and his body was on the roof of a carriage .
his whole face sharpened away into nose and chin , and the skin of his cheeks was drawn quite tense over his outstanding bones .
a crowd of morbid sightseers were still gathered round deep dene house , which was just such a suburban villa as i had pictured .
for a whole day my companion had rambled about the room with his chin upon his chest and his brows knitted , charging and recharging his pipe with the strongest black tobacco , and absolutely deaf to any of my questions or remarks .
why do you say that ?
it began with a thin scratch and ended in a jagged hole .
what can i do for you ?
they were tan boots and had never been varnished .
i will never sign .
all day i turned these facts over in my mind , endeavouring to hit upon some theory which could reconcile them all , and to find that line of least resistance which my poor friend had declared to be the starting point of every investigation .
people did not hide in those days without excellent hiding places , and the hiding place that has once been used may be again .
i cried ,
miss morstan 's demeanor was as resolute and collected as ever .
botany .
i brought the paper back with me , and thought of destroying it , since i could see no way of returning it without confessing my guilt to my husband .
do you remember what darwin says about music ?
you will find me at the police station .
he has evidently picked up the scent again ,
his shoulders are rounded from much study , and his face protrudes forward , and is forever slowly oscillating from side to side in a curiously reptilian fashion .
the boots volunteered to show me the room : it was on the second floor , and there was a small corridor leading up to it .
the safe was ajar , and holmes standing in front of it was removing dossier after dossier , swiftly examining each , and then packing it neatly in von bork 's valise .
which are ?
but another will come , and yet another , until some day justice will be done that is as certain as the rise of to morrow 's sun .
it is a little cold for the time of the year ,
cried the chairman .
i am about to write your check , however unwelcome the information which you have gained may be to me .
the police are of opinion that this outrage may have been perpetrated upon miss cushing by these youths , who owed her a grudge and who hoped to frighten her by sending her these relics of the dissecting rooms some probability is lent to the theory by the fact that one of these students came from the north of ireland , and , to the best of miss cushing 's belief , from belfast .
let me know your train .
oh , dear !
no less !
such , in a few words , my dear boy , is the history of this terrible business in which i was involved .
i had the hint from holmes that this smooth faced pawnbroker 's assistant was a formidable man a man who might play a deep game .
and yet you compromise me by coming here and so showing that there are business relations between us .
we stood straining our ears , but nothing came .
thaddeus is evidently in a most disturbed state of mind .
then they all moved on together .
if it 's on the market i 'll buy it if it means another penny on the income tax .
i think , your grace , that this can only be done by absolute frankness between us .
could you blame me , sir ?
do you not see how very suggestive that is ?
there is no satisfaction in vengeance unless the offender has time to realize who it is that strikes him , and why retribution has come upon him .
i am sorry to say that we have made very little progress ,
well , you know what my instructions are .
and now , watson , let us have a little stroll round in the sunshine .
the old guiacum test was very clumsy and uncertain .
the girl was placed upon the mule , and old ferrier upon one of the horses , with his money bag , while jefferson hope led the other along the precipitous and dangerous path .
i have heard that he was atrocious .
i do n't like it , dr watson i tell you straight , sir , that i do n't like it .
there are some bits that will come home to you , mr holmes , or i am mistaken .
he looked from one to the other of us , as if uncertain which to address .
how very impertinent !
i fancy old frankland allows her a pittance , but it cannot be more , for his own affairs are considerably involved .
i have had the advantage of two conversations with mrs stapleton , and the case has now been so entirely cleared up that i am not aware that there is anything which has remained a secret to us .
come to consult us , i fancy !
but i wish to call your attention very particularly to the position of this house , in the garden of which the bust was destroyed .
how do you know he was n't a newspaper man ?
small could not find out , however , where the treasure was hid , for no one ever knew , save the major and one faithful servant who had died .
he knocked , but received no answer .
never was a man so compassed round with death .
you were thinking that if the portrait were framed it would just cover that bare space and correspond with gordon 's picture over there .
we shall be with you within an hour of receiving it , and we shall then very soon get to the bottom of the business .
whether it was the terrible death of her father or the effects of the hateful marriage into which she had been forced , poor lucy never held up her head again , but pined away and died within a month .
is that your hat , mr baker ?
for no amount of idee fixe would enable your interesting monomaniac to find out where these busts were situated .
he had bounded across the room and had wrenched a small phial from her hand .
sir henry baskerville and dr mortimer were ready upon the appointed day , and we started as arranged for devonshire .
i dashed some brandy into the water , and the colour began to come back to his bloodless cheeks .
if he gave me to the law , i could give him to the brotherhood .
he groaned .
instead of being ruined , my good sir , you will find that your reputation has been enormously enhanced .
it is incredible that this blood bespattered room contained no trace which could have aided us .
oh , dio mio , you have killed him !
but he might be a bachelor .
he was up again in a moment , and with convulsive strength he seized holmes by the throat , but i struck him on the head with the butt of my revolver , and he dropped again upon the floor .
she seems to be a young lady who is very well able to take care of herself .
though unsatisfactory , my research has not been entirely barren ,
our craft was evidently a very fast one .
i did not know of a close intimacy .
what is the matter ?
it threw a livid , unnatural circle upon the floor , while in the shadows beyond we saw the vague loom of two figures which crouched against the wall .
a remarkable man this von bork a man who could hardly be matched among all the devoted agents of the kaiser .
why should i not go ?
but , dear me !
i believed that if i had an interview i could gain his help , so i asked him to meet me .
for days on end , when the mood was on him , he has been sunk in the deepest gloom .
and a very good thing , too !
i do not know whether he was seized with compunction at that moment for the part he was playing , but i know that i never felt more heartily ashamed of myself in my life than when i saw the beautiful creature against whom i was conspiring , or the grace and kindliness with which she waited upon the injured man .
he turned his fierce dark eyes upon me as he asked this last question .
still i recognized that justice must be done , and that the depravity of the victim was no condonment in the eyes of the law .
this morning i began very early , and at eight o clock i reached halliday 's private hotel , in little george street .
the simpson incident had shown me that a dog was kept in the stables , and yet , though some one had been in and had fetched out a horse , he had not barked enough to arouse the two lads in the loft .
no address .
satan himself is loose in it !
at intervals he drew from his pocket a bulky letter to which he referred , and on the margins of which he scribbled some notes .
it was in the north country .
how do you define the word ' grotesque ' ?
it was the end of november , and holmes and i sat , upon a raw and foggy night , on either side of a blazing fire in our sitting room in baker street .
you know my powers , my dear watson , and yet at the end of three months i was forced to confess that i had at last met an antagonist who was my intellectual equal .
well , sir , it wakened me from my sleep , so it is hard to judge .
then we shall take it .
how in the world can you say that ?
nothing ,
thank heaven !
thank god for that .
she will not even tell me all that he has done to her .
no , sir i believe you mean well by me .
the more reason why you should avoid a public investigation .
if that was indeed so , they could at least have their revenge upon the man who had done it .
inspector baynes , considering that such a visit must have some purpose in view and was likely , therefore , to be repeated , abandoned the house but left an ambuscade in the shrubbery .
awake , watson ?
he was pointing to faint discolourations along the woodwork of the window .
good day , sir good day ,
what would he do then ?
barker grew paler , and his great , strong hands were clasped convulsively together .
i would give my fortune to have them back .
in an instant holmes had raced up on to the ridge , and , standing upon a lofty pinnacle , craned his neck in every direction .
she was a striking looking woman , a little short and thick for symmetry , but with a beautiful olive complexion , large , dark , italian eyes , and a wealth of deep black hair .
these fellows are sharper than i expected .
the table was set out ready for me , and mr duncan ross was there to see that i got fairly to work .
can n't keep out of it , can you ?
when we secure the men we shall get the treasure .
no , no , my dear watson , not all by no means all .
it was i , then , and not sir henry , who was being dogged by this secret man .
the path has been cut half way round the fall to afford a complete view , but it ends abruptly , and the traveler has to return as he came .
and it is all on the right side of the pipe .
after throwing down your paper , which was the action which drew my attention to you , you sat for half a minute with a vacant expression .
it has long been an axiom of mine that the little things are infinitely the most important .
what 's this ?
everything gave way to his duty .
we were residing at the time in furnished lodgings close to a library where sherlock holmes was pursuing some laborious researches in early english charters researches which led to results so striking that they may be the subject of one of my future narratives .
no one knows how accident occurred .
so i sat and mused , until such dangerous thoughts came into my head that i hurried away to my desk and plunged furiously into the latest treatise upon pathology .
when they got inside they walked up and down the room or rather , patent leathers stood still while square toes walked up and down .
now , watson , there is cocoa ready in the next room .
make any excuse so as not to come with him .
and then ?
i 'll tell you my story , gentlemen , and then i 'll ask you , as man to man , what less could i do ?
having secured the future , we can afford to be more lenient with the past .
some underlying suggestion of the tragic and the terrible .
one dumb bell
here is your ring , mrs sawyer ,
you will hear and see enough before morning ,
paul 's .
and the ring ?
from there i should explore every hut upon the moor until i lighted upon the right one .
two columns were occupied with a highly sensational and flowery rendering of the whole incident .
in fact , it may in a sense be called the very centre of it .
is it on this brixton case that you are employing them ?
it was badly stage managed for even the rawest investigators must be struck by the absence of the usual feminine ululation .
he had neither money nor position nothing but his beauty and strength and energy so my father forbade the match .
no member is permitted to take the least notice of any other one .
a finer first appearance had never been made in the lodge .
have you a family ?
i knew that it was the mark made by brunton in his measurements , and that i was still upon his trail .
he continued , with a pleasant smile ,
stanley hopkins was speechless with amazement .
what is the meaning of it all , mr holmes ?
the dismal noise came from upstairs .
it 's not nearly so well done .
have you any objection to my looking at your register ?
but i 'm not easy in my mind about it .
it was above the usual size , with a soft lead , the outer colour was dark blue , the maker 's name was printed in silver lettering , and the piece remaining is only about an inch and a half long .
but you handled the molesey mystery with less than your usual that 's to say , you handled it fairly well .
mrs warren 's whimsical problem enlarges somewhat and assumes a more sinister aspect as we proceed .
slowly the eyelids drooped over the tired eyes , and the head sunk lower and lower upon the breast , until the man 's grizzled beard was mixed with the gold tresses of his companion , and both slept the same deep and dreamless slumber .
i should be glad to know what they would be .
it sent a little thrill of joy to my heart to notice that she showed no sign of elation at the prospect .
it is wonderful !
our guide had left us the lantern .
i have inquired .
holmes put his finger on his lips , replaced his hand in his breast pocket , and burst out laughing as we turned down the street .
you see my point ?
on such occasions , lucy was silent , but her blushing cheek and her bright , happy eyes , showed only too clearly that her young heart was no longer her own .
do you see anything there ?
where were we going , and what were we to do ?
what was it that my wife was concealing from me ?
then he tossed it down and seized the next .
nothin ' doin ' !
is he on his own or is he entirely in with them ?
our difficulties are still before us .
nay , nay , brother stangerson ,
very good .
then he surveyed the room in which the detective was to be trapped .
it accepted after some hesitation a lump of sugar which the old naturalist handed to me , and , having thus sealed an alliance , it followed me to the cab , and made no difficulties about accompanying me .
unfortunately , no .
holmes folded up his check and placed it carefully in his notebook .
your marriage , you say ?
she struck a gong upon the table , and i was shown out by the page .
it was finally agreed , however , that he should retain the young swiss messenger with him as guide and companion while i returned to meiringen .
this paste in the tin is no doubt the luminous mixture with which the creature was daubed .
we will suppose that he was travelling back to woolwich when he was killed and thrown out of the compartment .
it was a simple story which he had to tell , and one which did but confirm our own deductions .
above all , try to let mr hosmer angel vanish from your memory , as he has done from your life .
have you been there ?
the small matter which i have chronicled under the heading of a study in scarlet , and that other later one connected with the loss of the gloria scott , may serve as examples of this scylla and charybdis which are forever threatening the historian .
perhaps i have trained myself to see what others overlook .
i shall work it out on my own hook .
and then came this week and all the misery and ruin .
it will give him the clue for which he has been seeking .
to his sombre and cynical spirit all popular applause was always abhorrent , and nothing amused him more at the end of a successful case than to hand over the actual exposure to some orthodox official , and to listen with a mocking smile to the general chorus of misplaced congratulation .
on perceiving the similarity of the two corridors , it became clear that she might very easily have made such a mistake , and , in that case , it was evident that she must have entered the professor 's room .
softly we stole along until we had come into the other wing .
and your father ?
you can come with us to night if you want to be in at the finish .
sometimes it 's his face , but most generally it 's hers .
the lock was a perfectly simple one , and only a strong blade was needed to push it back .
you are alone ?
under the elm .
oh , he is very well known in his own circle .
she has at least an answer for everything .
it 's merely taking your money , for i know that i am right .
the woman 's first instinct would be to shut and fasten the window .
someone has been tampering with it ,
i rushed forward , fell down , clapped my hand to my face , and became a piteous spectacle .
you must stop work now , and when you go downstairs just say that i wish to see brunton .
tired looking or fresh ?
suppose i show him right into a room with seven men in it where he expected to find me alone .
it must , then , be somebody in the house who has taken it .
there were some who accused him of lukewarmness in his adopted religion , and others who put it down to greed of wealth and reluctance to incur expense .
the first faint winter 's dawn was beginning to appear , and we could dimly see the occasional figure of an early workman as he passed us , blurred and indistinct in the opalescent london reek .
now , mr holmes , we will give you something a little more recent .
he then closed the door behind the bulky form which followed him and carefully adjusted the heavy curtain over the latticed window .
i 'll just send round a note to mr jeremy dixon , and then i have no doubt that our luck will turn .
but i tell you that i am acting for him .
just sit down in that chair , watson ,
you think there is someone behind him ?
but it is not my custom to discuss my most intimate personal affairs in this public manner .
it was last night , sir , somewhere about twelve .
i was bitterly hurt .
the man pulled himself together , and faced us with an effort at self composure .
again and again i have taken a problem to him , and have received an explanation which has afterwards proved to be the correct one .
just open that window , and hand me the water carafe .
i would sooner see you in your grave , my girl , than the wife of either of them .
the general sequence of events is pretty clear , is it not ?
von bork flushed crimson .
get out !
there was no maker 's name but , as holmes had remarked , the initials h .
then the whole thing came to me in an instant , and i only needed certain corroborative proofs , which i speedily obtained .
you 're looking at the wrong side !
i left him collapsed in the chair .
the third door was that which we were seeking .
i am glad to say that my investigation has not been entirely barren ,
not that only .
and why could he not write ?
i have had nothing since breakfast .
but how on earth do you deduce that the gas is not laid on in his house ?
see that chaplet dipped with pearls beside the quinine bottle .
it seems to me to be a most dark and sinister business .
why , otherwise , should he be so desperately anxious that she should not get so near him as to see his features ?
i think , watson , that we must spare time to run down together on saturday morning and make sure that this curious and inclusive investigation has no untoward ending .
on observing the cab i should have instantly turned and walked in the other direction .
then i recalled to mind that he had mentioned to us that his brother and he were twins .
in the first place , why did he take them ?
therefore i had to determine where mr john douglas himself could be , and the balance of probability was that with the connivance of his wife and his friend he was concealed in a house which had such conveniences for a fugitive , and awaiting quieter times when he could make his final escape .
he wants us .
if i promise to keep a secret , you may absolutely depend upon my doing so .
holmes sat for some little time twisting this letter between his fingers , and frowning , as he stared into the fire .
you must not think i am sulky when i do that .
the word puts me on the alert .
cried the owner .
i suppose there could not be two people in your rooms , mrs warren ?
if you can trace him , i should think that toby will have no difficulty .
wait in patience .
holmes lit his pipe and handed me his pouch .
she was accustomed to use slang of the kind .
and you have touched nothing ?
you do sir charles an injustice .
is it not a pity that she was not on my level ?
that was always the way .
i had particularly asked to be called at eight , so i was very much astonished at this forgetfulness .
i confess it all .
cried the banker with an ashen face .
colonel barclay had married at the time when he was a sergeant , and his wife , whose maiden name was miss nancy devoy , was the daughter of a former color sergeant in the same corps .
i placed it upon a cushion on the rug .
there was dr wood there to help me .
you evidently do not know the earl ,
do you remember the case , gregson ?
he and his two comrades had spent the night before among the mountains .
the initials were , of course , of the highest importance , but more valuable still was it to know that within a week he had settled his bill at one of the most select london hotels .
his punishment followed , and would be known to all if only to put the fear of death into them .
is there no watchman to the building ?
no , i confess that i do not see how this bears upon the matter .
he was eager that i should break the entail , and he was of opinion that it lay in my power to do so .
i have no doubt of it .
you mean that he has a great income and that he must earn it in an illegal fashion ?
you will excuse me ,
but if this were the practical joke of some students from the dissecting rooms , it would be as easy for them to send two odd ears as a pair .
until we got three quarters down regent street .
there was such a ring of sincerity in the woman 's voice that for the instant i forgot all about her levity and was moved only to do her will .
the shock has made her half witted , but i understand that she was never very bright .
holmes gave an exclamation of satisfaction .
he laughed until he choked , and we got a knife and opened the goose .
that , also , is still obscure .
the daily appearance of a brougham and pair could hardly have been overlooked in such sleepy hollows .
but he 'll be gone before you can get him to hospital .
yes she was clear about that .
barrymore had passed it on in order to help selden in his escape .
on the inside of the cover was a paper label , with the initials of k .
as we came round the top of the stairs we had run up against sir henry baskerville himself .
had he read that letter his confidence would have been forever destroyed .
the son had gone also .
holmes nodded .
what could that something be ?
a plain gold wedding ring , found in the roadway between the ' white hart ' tavern and holland grove .
i needed the money badly .
why , too , should he faint at an allusion to the half effaced initials upon his arm , and die of fright when he had a letter from fordingham ?
were they all fastened this morning ?
that i make a mistake in explaining .
but i shall return by the twelve o'clock train , so as to be there in time for your coming .
but one could not look upon his cruel blue eyes , with their drooping , cynical lids , or upon the fierce , aggressive nose and the threatening , deep lined brow , without reading nature 's plainest danger signals .
i quoted the postscript .
not a word !
watson , this knife is surely in your line ?
far above his head hung the few inches of red cord which were still attached to the wire .
he wrote forever dissuading us from such a course .
that is what makes me uneasy .
how small we feel with our petty ambitions and strivings in the presence of the great elemental forces of nature !
come with me , and i 'll fix it up as easily as possible .
it is art for art 's sake , watson .
it reached the baronet , and gave him the first warning of his danger .
their secret had been forced from them .
then there are successive entries that a and b cleared , or left the country , and finally that c was visited , with , i fear , a sinister result for c .
at last , after two or three hours ' fruitless search , he was thinking of turning back in despair , when casting his eyes upwards he saw a sight which sent a thrill of pleasure through his heart .
no doubt lunch could be got at some suitable hostelry though my ignorance of the country prevents me from recommending one .
for some minutes i could see him standing among the trees .
it was absolutely certain , therefore , in spite of her denial , that she must know something of the matter .
yes , sir i met him that night , and he called next day to ask if we had got home all safe , and after that we met him that is to say , mr holmes , i met him twice for walks , but after that father came back again , and mr hosmer angel could not come to the house any more .
it was a singular document .
in the dingiest and dreariest of them our driver suddenly came to a stand .
and that 's the story of the musgrave ritual , watson .
no , sir
let me recommend this book , one of the most remarkable ever penned .
excuse me , sir ,
it 's not been fed for two days .
well , it is a possible supposition .
and all the time this quiet country house of yours is the centre of half the mischief in england , and the sporting squire the most astute secret service man in europe .
no one else , i think .
i found the black tor upon which i had seen the solitary watcher , and from its craggy summit i looked out myself across the melancholy downs .
precisely so .
is there any other opening ?
she is away upon a visit .
yours faithfully , jephro rucastle .
oh , come now , mr holmes ,
why not ?
he was still , as ever , deeply attracted by the study of crime , and occupied his immense faculties and extraordinary powers of observation in following out those clues , and clearing up those mysteries which had been abandoned as hopeless by the official police .
and you were told to see me ?
it looks like a thorn ,
every effort has been made to keep the secret .
but you spoke just now of observation and deduction .
but do you mean to say ,
see here ,
very right !
grit in a sensitive instrument , or a crack in one of his own high power lenses , would not be more disturbing than a strong emotion in a nature such as his .
each fact is suggestive in itself .
in the middle of the floor of the empty room was huddled the figure of an enormous man , his clean shaven , swarthy face grotesquely horrible in its contortion and his head encircled by a ghastly crimson halo of blood , lying in a broad wet circle upon the white woodwork .
without a word holmes hurried to a carriage , and during the long seven miles ' drive he never opened his mouth .
there were no papers or letters , and no marking upon the clothes .
by jove , i told you so !
he flung himself upon the cold meat and bread which were still lying upon the table from his host 's supper , and devoured it voraciously .
this time , at least , i did not scorn her advice .
you see how quickly the deed followed the sign when it came from dundee .
well , mr sherlock holmes , you may look for your tramp , and while you are finding him we will hold on to our man .
until he comes , i must detain you all under my personal custody .
the telescope , a formidable instrument mounted upon a tripod , stood upon the flat leads of the house .
he had been accustomed to succeed in all that he undertook .
he opened the case , and there , imbedded in soft , flesh coloured velvet , lay the magnificent piece of jewellery which he had named .
i am aware of that , professor coram .
he had actually arrived at twelve o clock , and appeared to be overwhelmed by the unexpected tragedy .
now , then tenta .
i can n't afford , therefore , to smile at your three broken busts , lestrade , and i shall be very much obliged to you if you will let me hear of any fresh development of so singular a chain of events .
this is the street ,
i suppose , watson , we must look upon you as a man of letters ,
then say it here and now before my face ,
i am surprised that lord st .
i acknowledged that i was .
where is your mistress ?
and he never mentioned any names ?
the devil 's agents may be of flesh and blood , may they not ?
it was barred in the morning .
yet if the lady is correct in saying that the flooring and walls are sound , and that the door , window , and chimney are impassable , then her sister must have been undoubtedly alone when she met her mysterious end .
do n't you see that it gives us an infallible test for blood stains .
you have n't ' seen about baker street , then ?
no , sherlock , no !
what is your theory , then ?
the fall roared beneath me .
yet i would rather die under my own roof than in a gaol .
oh , he has a european fame , has he ?
it is certain , therefore , that my sister was quite alone when she met her end .
but mind my words : if you are in trouble , go to boss mcginty .
no , he had taken it with him .
i observed that he was smoking with extraordinary rapidity .
we cannot carry him all the way to the hall .
what did i want ?
there was a parallel instance in aberdeen some years back , and something on very much the same lines at munich the year after the franco prussian war .
the american passed it over without a word .
that 's why i want to sift the matter to the bottom .
we are gradually driving all the small men out of trade .
he would always come back to his lost treaty , wondering , guessing , speculating , as to what holmes was doing , what steps lord holdhurst was taking , what news we should have in the morning .
no , sir you are mistaken .
first we drove down to the northumberland hotel and waited there until two gentlemen came out and took a cab from the rank .
will come without fail to night and bring new sparking plugs .
you say over them ones that you used to say every night in the waggon when we was on the plains .
it is seldom that any man , unless he is very full blooded , breaks out in this way through emotion , so i hazarded the opinion that the criminal was probably a robust and ruddy faced man .
but mr baynes had kept his most sinister exhibit to the last .
the roof ran up to an apex , and was evidently the inner shell of the true roof of the house .
i was furious .
it is very hot for the time of year and i have had a good deal to worry and try me .
the supra orbital crest , the facial angle , the maxillary curve , the
on the day of the crisis , however , his wife turned suddenly against him .
yes , i saw the picture a young woman with her head on her hands , peeping at you sideways .
he did not pause , however , but bounded onward .
mcmurdo took half a dozen from his pocket .
for all that , its presence has some significance ,
where does the thing come from ?
had she seen someone , then ?
however , the fates were against us .
i am sure i could n't say , sir
you can come to night , anyhow , and it will help you to know what we stand for in this community .
fournaye , was seen for some hours upon monday night watching the house in godolphin street .
it is only within the last weeks that he has returned , after a year 's absence , to high gable .
and if you can do so !
it 's about isa .
it might be a satisfaction to his majesty to regain it with his own hands .
i 'm never without one or the other before me .
it 's not tattooed ,
alighting at the small wayside station , we drove for some miles through the remains of widespread woods , which were once part of that great forest which for so long held the saxon invaders at bay the impenetrable weald , for sixty years the bulwark of britain .
the latter question he put to me several times , and always with a voice which vibrated with excitement .
i flatter myself that i have managed it rather neatly ,
but i retain your services , mr holmes .
no , i remember his saying that she was of german extraction , and i have seen her portrait .
we have a cousin of his here , and i daresay he could tell you where he is .
it was clear enough to see for some distance , but thaddeus sholto took down one of the side lamps from the carriage to give us a better light upon our way .
you see you begin , ' whereas , at about a quarter to one on tuesday morning an attempt was made , ' and so on .
no , it 's a double combination lock .
why should you attribute any importance to so grotesque an object ?
what was in the letter we could never discover , but i could see as he held it that it was short and written in a scrawling hand .
george , which was formed in connection with the watt street chapel for the purpose of supplying the poor with cast off clothing .
answer me that !
now i am assured that this is not so .
there was no name appended to this message .
we could write in the meantime , and he used to write every day .
no you can be much more useful if you will remain here as my representative .
yes , it was gone .
such a marriage he regarded as no marriage at all , but as a shame and a disgrace .
next morning , after breakfast , we found inspector macdonald and white mason seated in close consultation in the small parlour of the local police sergeant .
and yet i question , sir , whether , in all your experience , you have ever listened to a more mysterious and inexplicable chain of events than those which have happened in my own family .
have a cigarette , mr mcfarlane ,
well , down they came to the west country , there was no shaking them off , and there they have lived rent free on my best land ever since .
but he was as cunning as he was cruel , and at the first whisper of coming trouble he had secretly conveyed his treasures aboard a ship which was manned by devoted adherents .
but we all have our own systems , mr holmes .
he is down town .
he sent it to me in that state , with his curse , upon my wedding morning .
sit down , captain crocker .
follow me , gentlemen !
when i learned that the police had failed
you 've two horses in for the wessex cup silver blaze and bayard .
must i call you a liar as well as a thief ?
as i strolled up and down , glancing at them occasionally , mr rucastle came out to me , looking as merry and jovial as ever .
vincent spaulding seemed to know so much about it that i thought he might prove useful , so i just ordered him to put up the shutters for the day and to come right away with me .
it 's my business to know what goes on in this township ,
you do not add imagination to your other great qualities , but if you could for one moment put yourself in the place of this young man , would you choose the very night after the will had been made to commit your crime ?
then i will do it .
i can assure you that it has nothing to do with the sad tragedy which followed .
these two , finding that through his ignorance of the language he was helpless in their hands , had kept him a prisoner , and had endeavored by cruelty and starvation to make him sign away his own and his sister 's property .
yes , mr culverton smith is in .
a woman was sitting beside him , who rose as we entered .
fraser , the tutor , died however , and the school which had begun well sank from disrepute into infamy .
pink cap .
can we for our present practical needs get any further than that ?
the writing is undoubtedly my uncle 's .
it is not necessary that i should prolong a narrative which has already run to too great a length by telling how we broke the sad news to the terrified girl , how we conveyed her by the morning train to the care of her good aunt at harrow , of how the slow process of official inquiry came to the conclusion that the doctor met his fate while indiscreetly playing with a dangerous pet .
the other bicycle .
in this space lay a large and heavy flagstone with a rusted iron ring in the centre to which a thick shepherd 's check muffler was attached .
i see no marks .
repeated upon it , and ' letters , memoranda , receipts , and a register ' written beneath .
i had hardly expected so dolichocephalic a skull or such well marked supra orbital development .
below was a large sitting room above , his bedroom .
see here , my joker ,
all afternoon and late into the evening he sat lost in tobacco and thought .
he read the telegram aloud .
at all costs we must hold our ground where we are .
anything fresh , sergeant wilson ?
precisely .
we all remained silent , with our thoughts upon the new development which the mysterious business had taken .
while this conversation had been proceeding , we had been shooting the long series of bridges which span the thames .
how much do you know ?
quite so .
holmes smiled with satisfaction as we overhauled a river steamer and left her behind us .
is upon your side , dr leon sterndale , and not upon mine .
suddenly , however , he started , tapped me on the shoulder , and pointed over the meadows .
the church of st .
the carpet round his chair was littered with cigarette ends and with the early editions of the morning papers .
i cried .
i saw her in conversation with her maid .
we only decided after i met dr mortimer .
all that is clear enough ,
no of course not .
i dropped my gun and held him in my arms , but he almost instantly expired .
i had stooped and was scraping at this to see exactly what it was when i heard a muttered exclamation in german and saw the cadaverous face of the colonel looking down at me .
it must stop here , however ,
i seem to be in the grasp of some resistless , inexorable evil , which no foresight and no precautions can guard against .
so far as i know , the man 's name was never mentioned , and on the second night he disappeared as if he had never been .
he was a small , slim , clean shaven , prim faced man , flaxen haired and leanjawed , between thirty and forty years of age , dressed in a gray suit and wearing a straw hat .
in the garden ?
he sat with his mouth full of toast and his eyes sparkling with mischief , watching my intellectual entanglement .
what do you make of that , watson ?
it drove me mad to think that i and all that i held most dear should be in the power of such a man as this .
the first thing i knew about it was when i saw you two gentlemen driving back in her dog cart .
and it did , though they hardly found upon the mud bank what they had feared to find .
there are difficulties , watson .
it will be a london job before it is finished .
he was paid last on may th .
he chuckled to himself as he spoke , his eyes twinkled , and he seemed a different man to the sombre thinker of the previous night .
having secured him , it is evident to me that a consultation of some sort was held .
i think that i heard a ring ,
the other words were all simple and might be found in any issue , but ' moor ' would be less common .
an oasis of art in the howling desert of south london .
the thursday brought us another letter from our client .
all day i was engaged in my professional work , and it was late in the evening before i returned to baker street .
here all other contingencies have failed .
i had myself extinguished the lamp and closed the door before coming to bed .
hold it up to the light .
go into the kitchen , ' he continued out loud , ' and you will get food and drink .
i never saw a more inexorable face in my life .
i went on cabbing it for a day or so , intending to keep at it until i could save enough to take me back to america .
no , my brougham is waiting .
it is remarkably broad a splay foot , one would say .
amusement and chagrin seemed to be struggling for the mastery , until the former suddenly carried the day , and he burst into a hearty laugh .
holmes ,
i will n't be argued with !
you can understand that i am not accustomed to doing such business in my own person .
have you heard the news , sir ?
where 's your daughter ?
i have not seen mr woodley since .
you can imagine my surprise when , as i looked down this corridor , i saw a glimmer of light coming from the open door of the library .
a horror which was almost superstitious came upon him at the sight of them .
sherlock holmes took the glasses into his hand , and examined them with the utmost attention and interest .
he was reminded of his omission , however , by a visit one evening from mike scanlan , the fellow member whom he had met in the train .
what do you think of it , watson ?
now sign that , and send it by hand about four o'clock .
he examined the carpet and the window .
well , watson , we are , i fancy , nearing the end of our quest , and the only point which remains to be determined is whether we should go on to this mrs oakshott to night , or whether we should reserve it for to morrow .
tut , man , look at their faces !
at last it seemed to me to have come .
the old man lay back in his chair with a twitching face , and stared at her with brooding eyes .
then a sudden suspicion seized her .
it 's as true as gospel , for i began as a ship 's carpenter .
i have no recollection of the name .
who was the other man with a key ?
the thought gave me a kind o turn , and i walked back to the gate to see if i could see murcher 's lantern , but there was n't no sign of him nor of anyone else .
still , it did not go for very much , for the older man might have turned his back before the blow fell .
in some parts it widens into a morass .
it is the truth that i tell .
have you endeavoured to trace any of the securities here mentioned ?
you come under lodge discipline if it goes further , and that 's a heavy hand in these parts , as brother baldwin knows and as you will damn soon find out , brother mcmurdo , if you ask for trouble !
excellent !
i will not impose any further tax upon lady brackenstall 's patience and time ,
you would certainly have been burned , had you lived a few centuries ago .
we will suppose that a minister needs information as to a point which involves the navy , india , canada and the bimetallic question he could get his separate advices from various departments upon each , but only mycroft can focus them all , and say offhand how each factor would affect the other .
welcome to baskerville hall !
but there are points in connection with it which are not entirely devoid of interest and even of instruction .
there were some really curious pieces of mediaeval domestic architecture within .
i picked up the paper which he had thrown back to me and read the paragraph indicated .
these tales and rumours took substance and shape , and were corroborated and re corroborated , until they resolved themselves into a definite name .
meaning ' good form ' and that sort of thing ?
because it was the first in which i was ever engaged .
hang it all , mr holmes !
convinced that something was amiss with him , she rushed down the steps for the house was none other than the opium den in which you found me to night and running through the front room she attempted to ascend the stairs which led to the first floor .
then this visitor had nothing to do but to walk in .
but facts are facts , watson , and , after all , you are only a general practitioner with very limited experience and mediocre qualifications .
in june of ' , only one of their line had reached a home port .
well , mr holmes , what are we to do with that fact ?
you 'll know all about it presently .
now tie this bit of card round my neck , so as to hang it in front of me .
and yet if it were on the lawn , i wonder that you did not hear it also .
holmes tossed them all impatiently aside .
but look at these lonely houses , each in its own fields , filled for the most part with poor ignorant folk who know little of the law .
what was that , then ?
the night i joined you beat up old man stanger .
we have only their word for that .
we both sprang in , and away we dashed down the london road .
the paper !
i cannot quite hold myself absolved from the charge of sensationalism which has been urged against my records .
excellent ,
you are aware that i have some proficiency in the good old british sport of boxing .
i begin to suspect that this matter may turn out to be much deeper and more subtle than i at first supposed .
i may explain , then , that our friend here spent last evening in the company of his two brothers , owen and george , and of his sister brenda , at their house of tredannick wartha , which is near the old stone cross upon the moor .
i am bound to make every inquiry which can bear upon the case .
i will try .
the butler broke in
when i returned with the pistol the table had been cleared , and holmes was engaged in his favourite occupation of scraping upon his violin .
that seemed to make the matter no better , so then i lost my temper too , and i answered him rather more hotly than i should perhaps , considering that she was standing by .
in the dining room she had been demure and discreet .
in and out through the open woodwork was woven a crimson cord , which was secured at each side to the crosspiece below .
before sitting down , he had deposited upon the ground his useless rifle , and also a large bundle tied up in a grey shawl , which he had carried slung over his right shoulder .
the sight of the safe , the saucer of milk , and the loop of whipcord were enough to finally dispel any doubts which may have remained .
ah , that is the housekeeper 's room .
what 's the matter , then ?
and yet , in that bell rope , he has given us a clue which should not have left us a doubt .
mr stanger 's many friends will rejoice to hear that , though he has been cruelly and brutally beaten , and though he has sustained severe injuries about the head , there is no immediate danger to his life .
the incidents of the next few days are indelibly graven upon my recollection , and i can tell them without reference to the notes made at the time .
ten minutes later we were both in a cab , and rattling through the silent streets on our way to charing cross station .
the last had just gone .
he had also a check book on the woolwich branch of the capital and counties bank .
no , sir
no good can ever come of falsehood , mother , ' she said .
i do n't see how that is to be managed , unless you break in the door .
no doubt you are right .
however , my misfortune soon proved to be a blessing in disguise .
pray do n't think it a liberty if i give you a word of friendly warning .
before entering , holmes made an examination of the door which had been forced .
the old man exclaimed .
no , sir
i have not pushed it to the length of getting into a box to think , but that is the logical outcome of my convictions .
i do n't know , sir i hope to heaven that he has gone , for he has brought nothing but trouble here !
you can bleat about the girl to your heart 's content , for that 's your own affair , but if you round on your pals to this plain clothes copper , it will be the worst day 's work that ever you did .
date , july .
the fierce old man said nothing , but still glared at my companion .
with his fears all changed to convictions , he hurried on .
he had his hand under the other 's arm as they entered , and helped him to a chair with a tenderness which one would hardly have expected from his appearance .
if you live here long you vill get your proof .
yes , several .
there is a warrant against you from the holy four for assisting the ferriers away .
at four thirty my task was not yet completed .
to be taking matters too much for granted .
if you will call a four wheeler , hopkins , we shall be ready to start for forest row in a quarter of an hour .
he appeared to have the convulsive strength of a man in an epileptic fit .
why should he come because you have asked him ?
the characters are , as you see , exactly the same as the last one .
the official received us with a very grave face and showed us into a sitting room , where an exceedingly unkempt and agitated elderly man , clad in a flannel dressing gown , was pacing up and down .
these two men , close and confidential friends , are the centre of the household but there is one other person who for our immediate purpose may be even more important .
his eyes , which were of a peculiarly light , watery gray , seemed to always retain that far away , introspective look which i had only observed in sherlock 's when he was exerting his full powers .
well , really !
no , i swear it to you on all i hold sacred .
i have no complaint to make .
this list will be of very material assistance to me .
we shall know if you speak of this ,
then he was certainly there ?
i thought they had better hear your ladyship 's story first .
here i could only make sense by putting t and g for the missing letters , and supposing that the name was that of some house or inn at which the writer was staying .
you should be ashamed of yourself !
you 're too late .
to rake this up could n't help our poor master , and it 's well to go carefully when there 's a lady in the case .
the police theory is that a most sensational crime has been committed , that the victim was clubbed to death in his own bedroom , his papers rifled , and his dead body dragged across to the wood stack , which was then ignited so as to hide all traces of the crime .
clearly in afghanistan .
accepting it as correct , we are now able to say that the symbols stand respectively for n , v , and r .
it is something to have touched bottom anywhere in this bog in which we are floundering .
i was thunderstruck by my friend 's words .
neither the flowers nor the earth showed any sign of having been disturbed , nor were there any marks upon the narrow strip of grass which separated the house from the road .
life is commonplace , the papers are sterile audacity and romance seem to have passed forever from the criminal world .
it is pleasant to me to observe , watson , that you have so far grasped this truth that in these little records of our cases which you have been good enough to draw up , and , i am bound to say , occasionally to embellish , you have given prominence not so much to the many causes c l bres and sensational trials in which i have figured but rather to those incidents which may have been trivial in themselves , but which have given room for those faculties of deduction and of logical synthesis which i have made my special province .
suddenly , to my horror , there was a distinct sound of footsteps moving softly in the next room .
you do n't believe such nonsense as that ?
the envelope too , please .
lecoq took six months or so .
yes , you will find some very singular points about the moor , dr watson .
underneath the vigorous headlines which our client had quoted , i read the following suggestive narrative :
has he remained in london , or has he followed us down here ?
that the man was highly intellectual is of course obvious upon the face of it , and also that he was fairly well to do within the last three years , although he has now fallen upon evil days .
of course , you have formed your own conclusions .
suspicion fell upon the maid of the princess , who was an italian , and it was proved that she had a brother in london , but we failed to trace any connection between them .
this , i understand is your son 's room
you expected to find it ?
milverton chuckled .
our visitor collapsed into a chair , with a ghastly face and a glitter of moisture on his brow .
it is , of course , possible that a cunning man might change the tires of his bicycle in order to leave unfamiliar tracks .
he knows where the young man is to that i 'll swear , and if he knows , then it must be our own fault if we cannot manage to know also .
when i reached him he was groping about frantically in the empty cab , and giving vent to the finest assorted collection of oaths that ever i listened to .
it is not twelve o clock yet .
he hurried before a justice of the peace , accompanied by stangerson , who had become his private secretary , and represented to him that they were in danger of their lives from the jealousy and hatred of an old rival .
but who are the others ?
the station master had not finished his speech before we were all hastening in the direction of the fire .
the foreign minister alone i could have withstood , but when the premier also deigned to visit my humble roof !
working with known letters , it took this form :
a warm wind blew from the westward , and heavy clouds moved slowly across the sky , with half a moon peeping occasionally through the rifts .
a set of steps stood at one side of the room , in the midst of a litter of lath and plaster , and above them there was an opening in the ceiling large enough for a man to pass through .
advise you to abandon case .
i may be putting my very life in your hands by what i say but , bad as you are and it seemed to me last night that you were shaping to be as bad as the worst still you are new to it , and your conscience cannot yet be as hardened as theirs .
they are in the outhouse , those dreadful things ,
i 've got more pounds to my name than you 've hairs on your head .
at the risk of telling a twice told tale , i will recapitulate the facts as they were known to the public at the conclusion of the inquest .
suddenly , however , as i ran , a deadly dizziness and sickness came over me .
cried lestrade .
hudson came .
i assure you , holmes , that i marvel at the means by which you obtain your results in this case , even more than i did in the jefferson hope murder .
she saw us .
and now how was i to proceed to reconstruct this midnight drama ?
i tell you , man , that i have n't got one .
the boscombe pool , which is a little reed girt sheet of water some fifty yards across , is situated at the boundary between the hatherley farm and the private park of the wealthy mr turner .
if i could only use it to detach his wife
holmes tied the dog to the hedge , and we hastened onward .
i expect , as usual , he knows a good deal that we do n't .
out of them we dragged a bicycle , palmer tired , one pedal bent , and the whole front of it horribly smeared and slobbered with blood .
with an effort dr sterndale recovered his ruffled composure .
you never can get those busts out of your head .
his who is gone .
i cried .
i never hope to see such a sight as that again , mr holmes .
there , i admit that a bicycle is impossible .
the fates are against you , watson ,
with a rush we got to the poisoned men and dragged them out into the well lit hall .
the note is written upon ordinary cream laid paper without watermark .
cried morris , his voice vibrating with passion .
would to heaven i had never seen it !
a dull light shone through heavy mullioned windows , and from the high chimneys which rose from the steep , high angled roof there sprang a single black column of smoke .
nothing less would bring a man out on such a day and at such an hour .
we were tired with our journey and chilled by our drive , so we took a gray view of the place .
it was then that it left the print which was actually observed by dr mortimer .
well , then , why this hound should be loose tonight .
i told my pal what i had done , for he was a man that it was easy to tell a thing like that to .
for you , mr merryweather , the stake will be some , pounds and for you , jones , it will be the man upon whom you wish to lay your hands .
i looked out of the open window .
we heard of you as living the life of a hermit among your bees and your books in a small farm upon the south downs .
at the brink of it was the furze bush upon which the coat had been hung .
to escape , to track down sholto , to have my hand upon his throat , that was my one thought .
i have not an enemy in the world , as far as i know , so why should anyone play me such a trick ?
he admitted that there was something , and that it was concerned with his official life .
are you ready to be tested ?
this sickened her of america , and she came back to live with a maiden aunt at pinner , in middlesex .
sweet lord , have mercy on our souls !
the great agra treasure
he may be here at any moment .
subject to your correction , i should judge that the watch belonged to your elder brother , who inherited it from your father .
i am more to blame than you , watson .
oh , to the other side of the west end .
continued lestrade .
you are aware , mr holmes , that our college doors are double a green baize one within and a heavy oak one without .
never been there ?
it was easy to follow him ,
what is it ?
then we had better go down , for it is a little past the hour .
you are sure of it !
thank you .
however , if there 's any difficulty in your telling me , i 'll do the talking , and then you will see how far you have a chance of holding back your secrets .
where did the money come from ?
you will have your data soon ,
some of the inhabitants of the indian peninsula are small men , but none could have left such marks as that .
out of the envelope he took a half sheet of foolscap paper folded into four .
i had to stay till i had it all , every man and every secret right here in this hand .
he had , as i understand , some sort of map or chart which he was comparing with the manuscript , and which he thrust into his pocket when you appeared .
therefore he is at mapleton .
i only wished to help ,
as they turned to the car holmes pointed back to the moonlit sea and shook a thoughtful head .
patent leather boots had gone round , and square toes had hopped over .
you really are very fine indeed .
my first impression as i opened the door was that a fire had broken out , for the room was so filled with smoke that the light of the lamp upon the table was blurred by it .
finally there was a creak from a chair , and the footsteps ceased .
any orders , sir ?
and yet i was at a loss to know why .
as i entered , a sallow malay attendant had hurried up with a pipe for me and a supply of the drug , beckoning me to an empty berth .
he is a wonderful worker .
you may have observed that some of them were marked with ticks , and the others the great majority were not .
his brow clouded , however , as he glanced over the contents .
i should be happy to advance it without further parley from my own private purse , were it not that the strain would be rather more than it could bear .
from the moment that i conceived the idea of the body being upon the roof , which surely was not a very abstruse one , all the rest was inevitable .
you do n't seem to give much thought to the matter in hand ,
mcginty paused and looked round the room with his dull , malevolent eyes .
we are close there now ,
i suggested .
i think that what you have been good enough to tell us makes the matter fairly clear , and that i can deduce all that remains .
i have solved it .
pray take a seat .
you take your choice .
gennaro saw our enemy 's cruel face smiling at him as he dipped his hand in the bag .
i should not go so far as to say that , watson .
my dear wife knew that i had business in the city .
the inspector hurried away on the instant to make inquiries about the page , while holmes and i returned to baker street for breakfast .
we had shaken off our pursuers and were safe .
if there 's police court business over this , you 'll remember that i was the one that stood your friend , and that i was miss alice 's friend too .
our case becomes rounded off , and difficulty after difficulty thins away in front of us ,
it is more than a suspicion .
well , watson ,
then my reports have all been wasted !
when a woman thinks that her house is on fire , her instinct is at once to rush to the thing which she values most .
between ourselves , watson , it 's a sporting duel between this fellow milverton and me .
you will find tobacco in the persian slipper .
what did we see first ?
besides , it would have been such bad taste to have treated a young lady in so scurvy a fashion .
i did n't think there was a soul in england who did n't know godfrey staunton , the crack three quarter , cambridge , blackheath , and five internationals .
that 's the result of all our study in scarlet : to get them a testimonial !
oh , come , it may prove to be something of interest , after all .
what do we find ?
you saw me , perhaps , on the night of the convict hunt , when i was so imprudent as to allow the moon to rise behind me ?
i 've heard that there is no harm in being a freeman anywhere but here so why should i think the worse of you for that ?
none in particular .
clair 's story , he was known to have been at the foot of the stair within a very few seconds of her husband 's appearance at the window , he could hardly have been more than an accessory to the crime .
it was our only chance , for we could not hope to fight our way out with all the women and children , so i volunteered to go out and to warn general neill of our danger .
then there is an end of it .
genius , my dear von bork genius !
i presume that you have looked into this matter of the murder of john straker and the disappearance of silver blaze ?
what danger do you foresee ?
she put her hand to her throat , and a choking sob cut short the sentence .
dear me , this is a very sad development , watson , is it not ?
i speak now not as a medical man but as a trustee and executor of sir charles 's will .
i wonder who william whyte was .
then when you hear him retire for the night , you must open the shutters of your window , undo the hasp , put your lamp there as a signal to us , and then withdraw quietly with everything which you are likely to want into the room which you used to occupy .
she cried , pouring out her soul in a torrent of words .
could i not come at some more convenient hour ?
the man looked surprised and a little embarrassed .
all was quiet with him , save that a long inscription had appeared that morning upon the pedestal of the sundial .
oh , remarkably superficial ,
i suppose you know what you have got ?
there one may learn of the shooting of policemen hunt and evans because they had ventured to arrest two members of the society a double outrage planned at the vermissa lodge and carried out in cold blood upon two helpless and disarmed men .
i have given some attention to this matter and it is undoubtedly of importance .
not a killing !
now she was flying down the stream , near in to the shore , going at a tremendous rate .
the mark was put by barker 's bloodstained slipper upon the windowsill to suggest how the fugitive got away .
no , no , hopkins , it is another and more formidable person for whom we must seek .
i am sure of it ,
the metallic clang heard by miss stoner was obviously caused by her stepfather hastily closing the door of his safe upon its terrible occupant .
and get out the papers of the conk singleton forgery case .
mcginty met his fate upon the scaffold , cringing and whining when the last hour came .
can i see her first ?
i should have had more faith in your marvellous faculty .
he has only been five days in the place .
there are points in it which please me .
it is somewhat of a liberty , no doubt , but we ll make it up to you .
in these days of nouveaux riches it is refreshing to find a case where the scion of an old county family which has fallen upon evil days is able to make his own fortune and to bring it back with him to restore the fallen grandeur of his line .
henderson never by any chance walks alone .
a good deal , mr holmes .
as if in answer to his words there rose suddenly out of the vast gloom of the moor that strange cry which i had already heard upon the borders of the great grimpen mire .
his remarks were suddenly cut short by a loud hubbub which broke out from the stall which we had just left .
he retired , came to london , and again acquired an evil name .
that angular shadow up yonder was the bait , and we were the hunters .
barker beat his head with his clenched fist in his impotent anger .
he kept on muttering .
clair .
there was a group of shabbily dressed men smoking and laughing in a corner , a scissors grinder with his wheel , two guardsmen who were flirting with a nurse girl , and several well dressed young men who were lounging up and down with cigars in their mouths .
some pragmatical seventeenth century lawyer , i suppose .
by eleven o'clock the next day we were well upon our way to the old english capital .
boone , as i have told you , was arrested and taken to the station , but it could not be shown that there had ever before been anything against him .
simon has been thrown into the greatest consternation by the strange and painful episodes which have taken place in connection with his wedding .
it was holmes who saw them first , and he stood pointing with a look of triumph upon his face .
it 's a very dark case , and my professional credit is at stake .
in the latter was a sawed off shotgun so he came with the deliberate purpose of crime .
john horner , a plumber , was accused of having abstracted it from the lady 's jewel case .
no , sir certainly not .
there was the point from which all my adventures started .
to you , inspector , the whole incident may appeal as a remarkable professional study .
mrs st .
and you could n't wash yourself ,
i never minted a dollar in my life .
he had thrown off the seedy frockcoat , and now he was the holmes of old in the mouse coloured dressing gown which he took from his effigy .
one moment ,
a wire to the head of the athens police , then ?
three gone before you could wink !
i was knocked all in a heap therefore at seeing a light in the window , and i suspected as something was wrong .
i spoke without thought .
he stole in and bolted the door behind him .
i ought to be able to come down where he could climb up .
outside all was calm and quiet .
you will say that an important telegram has miscarried and that you are looking for it .
the latter is always instructive .
the hunter 's mind was of a hard , unyielding nature , and the predominant idea of revenge had taken such complete possession of it that there was no room for any other emotion .
i am compelled to be a valetudinarian .
holmes read it and was about to place it in his notebook when he caught a glimpse of my expectant face .
the injuries were such as might very well have been inflicted by the butt end of his son 's gun , which was found lying on the grass within a few paces of the body .
a collection of my trifling achievements would certainly be incomplete which contained no account of this very singular business .
oh , merely a couple of hundred a year , but the work is slight , and it need not interfere very much with one 's other occupations .
accustomed as she was to deal with cattle , she was not alarmed at her situation , but took advantage of every opportunity to urge her horse on in the hopes of pushing her way through the cavalcade .
he pays you well , and if he chooses to lie concealed it is no direct business of yours .
the butler had given an exclamation of astonishment and was pointing at the dead man 's outstretched hand .
i 've never so much as seen him in my life .
were there other bicycles in this shed ?
i should not think so .
it do n't seem as though we 've improved matters .
it 's for charity and good fellowship .
he relaxed the austerity of his manner .
the worst man in london ,
it is a mistake to confound strangeness with mystery .
a heavy step was heard ascending the stair , with a great wheezing and rattling as from a man who was sorely put to it for breath .
i suggested .
could he throw no light ?
he seems to have declared war on the king 's english as well as on the english king .
i beg , sir henry , that you will not go about alone .
we all three shook hands , and i saw at once from the reverential way in which lestrade gazed at my companion that he had learned a good deal since the days when they had first worked together .
this has been done so often , and what good has ever come from it ?
i was able at last to have a good look at our prisoner .
he knew i was in the swim down here , and asked me to pick up a good man cheap .
there was no key , but it was of considerable weight , so we transferred it carefully to our own little cabin .
there was not a soul to be seen , nor a sound to be heard , except the dripping of the rain .
let it be watson , then ,
he shot one of his suspicious looks at me .
the child was pale and wan , but her healthy arms and legs showed that she had suffered less than her companion .
the bell rope hangs from the wire just to the right of my desk .
when i closed the door behind them a load seemed to be lifted from my mind .
what could it be , once more ?
it may have been taken from him .
it is only a suggestion ,
i 'll swear it on a bible .
there , now !
i guess that 's about the size of it .
first he cleaned , oiled , and loaded his smith wesson revolver .
then i will help you with all my heart .
what was the use ?
so that was the end of my adventure , mr holmes .
but where , then , is gennaro ?
you may have heard of any little reputation which i possess .
but this cyclist .
he referred to her again and again on our walk home , and since then hardly a day has passed that we have not seen something of the brother and sister .
i am a ruined man .
holmes had disappeared .
that one dint in the short , green grass was the only material witness left of this inexplicable nocturnal flight .
holmes chuckled and rubbed his hands .
jefferson hope had almost persuaded himself that they must have done so , when his eye fell upon an object which made every nerve of his body tingle within him .
if this man was murdered , how was it done ?
since about seven .
so far it seems to me that we are on safe ground .
but she would have forgiven me she would have stuck as close to me as a rope to a block if that woman had never darkened our door .
there are points of distinction about it .
after throwing down your paper , which was the action which drew my attention to you , you sat for half a minute with a vacant expression .
the matter can be easily remedied ,
he cried .
it is a matter of history , however , that a little time was still to elapse before the tiger of san pedro should meet with his deserts .
someone was evidently tapping very gently upon one of the panels of the door .
the light beat upon him where he stood , but long shadows trailed down the walls and hung like a black canopy above him .
the appearance of our visitor was a surprise to me , since i had expected a typical country practitioner .
let me see if i can make it clearer .
mcmurdo thought of old brother morris .
he came aboard with a black coat , and his papers right , and money enough in his box to buy the thing right up from keel to main truck .
i huddled on my clothes and hurried downstairs in an exceedingly bad temper to order some hot water .
the landlady drew an envelope from her bag from it she shook out two burnt matches and a cigarette end upon the table .
fresh women appeared in the harems of the elders women who pined and wept , and bore upon their faces the traces of an unextinguishable horror .
at the same time it is couched in so unfortunate a manner , and certain phrases in it are of so provocative a character , that its publication would undoubtedly lead to a most dangerous state of feeling in this country .
brown paper , with a distinct smell of coffee .
only at a crisis have i seen those battle signals flying .
if we do n't get on it will be easy to part company ,
snapped the detective .
she darted across to a writing desk , unlocked it , and drew out a long blue envelope .
you look a little bewildered ,
have i anything to say ?
that there is a single common point of resemblance in the varying reports which have reached us .
finally we stopped and sat panting on two rocks , while we watched him disappearing in the distance .
the cottage had been standing empty this eight months , and it was a pity , for it was a pretty two storied place , with an old fashioned porch and honeysuckle about it .
i fancy she knew something , for i may have dropped a word here or a word there but until yesterday , after you gentlemen had seen her , she never knew the rights of the matter .
certainly not .
the door closed once more , and the pungent reek of a strong cigar was borne to our nostrils .
i stared at him in astonishment .
in choosing a few typical cases which illustrate the remarkable mental qualities of my friend , sherlock holmes , i have endeavoured , as far as possible , to select those which presented the minimum of sensationalism , while offering a fair field for his talents .
of course i dropped everything and set out for the north once more .
i can spare you five minutes if you have anything to say .
a black hole yawned beneath into which we all peered , while musgrave , kneeling at the side , pushed down the lantern .
i remembered the case well , for it was one in which holmes had taken an interest on account of the peculiar ferocity of the crime and the wanton brutality which had marked all the actions of the assassin .
god bless you for saying that !
i was introduced , and mrs forrester earnestly begged me to step in and tell her our adventures .
no , sir black with a white band .
i cannot tell it .
the narrow passage led us into a quadrangle paved with flags and lined by sordid dwellings .
the lady stood by in haughty silence .
that is my magnum opus the pile of papers on the side table yonder .
he intended to change his name altogether , draw this money , and vanish , starting life again elsewhere .
he has been a disappointment to me , mr holmes a grievous disappointment .
two o clock , gentlemen ,
but the gems , mr holmes .
he handed them a shilling each , and away they buzzed down the stairs , and i saw them a moment later streaming down the street .
peculiar that is the very word ,
but the gunshot was apparently the cause of death .
it was low in the heavens , and i calculated that in less than an hour it would lie just above the topmost branches of the old oak .
lestrade and i walked behind him , the detective indifferent and contemptuous , while i watched my friend with the interest which sprang from the conviction that every one of his actions was directed towards a definite end .
we 'd soon be against the wall if we did n't shove back at those that were pushing us .
because she had the money there with which to pay off the brokers .
let him look out for himself !
i 'm jack prendergast , said he ,
whatever the motives of these extraordinary crimes , robbery is certainly not one of them .
sherlock holmes was transformed when he was hot upon such a scent as this .
the vandeleurs found it convenient to change their name to stapleton , and he brought the remains of his fortune , his schemes for the future , and his taste for entomology to the south of england .
you 'll never persuade me to believe that .
depend upon it there comes a time when for every addition of knowledge you forget something that you knew before .
i assure you that there is a reign of terror in the district , and that it is a hardy man who will cross the moor at night .
if you examine the roofs you will find that they are slightly rounded , and there is no railing round them .
it is really the most extraordinary and inexplicable business .
i do n't think you can have forgotten me .
ah , there goes major murphy on the other side of the street .
look at the thousands of scratches all round the hole , marks where the key has slipped .
how on earth did you know that ?
i thought so .
observed mr merryweather gloomily .
holmes opened it and smelled the single cigar which it contained .
we have to remember , watson , that whatever occurred is certainly something very extraordinary .
yes , there were several little changes carried out about that time .
but i have reasons to suppose that this opinion would be very much more frank and valuable if he imagines that we are alone .
do you mean that you do n't know ?
it was the most preposterous position in which i ever found myself in my life , and it was the thought of it that started me laughing just now .
all the time , however , i never lost sight of my purpose .
i suggested .
it would be .
where 's the other ?
i was already a dying and a desperate man .
go to your room , you two , and we shall talk further about this matter in the morning .
so do i .
this box this on the table .
come along !
oh , it will n't do really it will n't ,
the furniture was scattered about in every direction , with dismantled shelves and open drawers , as if the lady had hurriedly ransacked them before her flight .
should there be any fresh developments during the day we shall communicate with you , and you will no doubt let us know the results of your own inquiries .
man , you are surely travelling overfast ,
it is asking much of a wealthy man to come down and bury himself in a place of this kind , but i need not tell you that it means a very great deal to the countryside .
he always kept so far from me that i could not clearly see his face , but it was certainly someone whom i did not know .
one tallow stain , or even two , might come by chance but when i see no less than five , i think that there can be little doubt that the individual must be brought into frequent contact with burning tallow walks upstairs at night probably with his hat in one hand and a guttering candle in the other .
i struck a match and lit the detective 's lantern .
let me introduce you to pompey ,
she never told me of those marks on her arm that you saw this morning , but i know very well that they come from a stab with a hatpin .
i could go to jail happy if i knew that you were working for me outside .
von bork started violently , and his ruddy face turned a shade paler .
oh , it is childish .
but i should like to take a little walk over the moor before it grows dark , that i may know my ground to morrow , and i think that i shall put this horseshoe into my pocket for luck .
i cannot recall when i have seen anything so fine .
now , then the left hand on the apple of my throat .
there was no one in it .
you must play your cards as best you can when such a stake is on the table .
i have no doubt that you and i could carry it so far .
it 's as well ,
what of it , then ?
it was unlike anything in the vicarage garden .
it was as well for his resolution , perhaps , for her pleading face was one which it was hard to resist .
besides , if i wanted to , how could i do it ?
mr angel 's address you never had , i understand .
well , watson , what do you make of it ?
it ai n't quite regular , but he will n't mind that , you bet .
a door slammed in the distance .
from the hiding place into which i had been so swiftly hustled i heard the footfalls upon the stair , with the opening and the closing of the bedroom door .
you are sure that she has not sent it yet ?
the explorer took his cigar from his lips and gazed sternly at my companion .
it is merely a matter of time .
let us consider the claims of whitaker 's almanac .
this is clearly a book which is standardized .
pray proceed .
but you have hopes ?
it is conceivable that you may even have read some account of the matter .
he has left nothing to incriminate him .
a similar reward paid to any one giving information about a greek lady whose first name is sophy .
thank you .
you do n't associate his past with any particular part of america ?
he was a tall , gaunt man of sixty , with clear cut features and a small goatee beard which gave him a general resemblance to the caricatures of uncle sam .
it makes you quite invaluable as a companion .
he was once a schoolmaster in the north of england .
that is enough ,
dear sir :
what on earth can it mean ?
i seem to have read that a sawed off shotgun is a weapon used in some parts of america .
very strange indeed !
i should be so glad ,
the man had been horribly injured .
your leg will stand it ?
this outburst rather astonished me , as you can think .
he went over to the door , and turning the lock he examined it in his methodical way .
clair , of lee .
yes , from that window .
when we goes back to home i 'll give them to brother bob .
hate you , jack ?
the sun had set and dusk was settling over the moor .
she had slipped unseen through the yard entrance and passed behind two or three small craft , so that she had fairly got her speed up before we saw her .
i think you have made it all remarkably clear ,
the old scale of pay , and a guinea to the boy who finds the boat .
but here we are , and you must form your own impressions about him .
when about a hundred yards from the pool i heard a cry of cooee ! which was a usual signal between my father and myself .
the prompt and energetic action of the officers of the law shows the great advantage of the presence on such occasions of a single vigorous and masterful mind .
he jerked his arms and stamped his feet in a kind of convulsive frenzy .
our visitor sprang from his chair .
do n't be disheartened , mr pycroft , ' said my new acquaintance , seeing the length of my face .
it was hard to say whence it came .
i travelled for two years in tibet , therefore , and amused myself by visiting lhassa , and spending some days with the head lama .
there is a well known agency for governesses in the west end called westaway 's , and there i used to call about once a week in order to see whether anything had turned up which might suit me .
more than once during the years that i had lived with him in baker street i had observed that a small vanity underlay my companion 's quiet and didactic manner .
then here are the father 's feet as he paced up and down .
would be good enough to stop , he might be of inestimable service to me .
i should like to have this confirmed from your own lips .
as to the sailor and beddoes , neither of them was ever heard of again after that day on which the letter of warning was written .
why , sir , we have the man under lock and key .
i rapidly overtook it , and then , keeping at a discreet distance of a hundred yards or so , i followed its lights until we were clear of the town .
he was still sitting with his elbows upon his knees , considering how he should broach the matter to his daughter when a soft hand was laid upon his , and looking up , he saw her standing beside him .
yes , if you have nothing better to do .
i thank your grace .
but now there is steiner
once we diverted her luggage when she travelled .
we heard the hound on the moor , so i can swear that it is not all empty superstition .
but it 's the real goods , and you can lay to that .
i trust that age doth not wither nor custom stale my infinite variety ,
i was thunderstruck at this , for it was the only memento that i had of her .
you surprise me , mr holmes .
no , sir , i did not .
i 'm surprised myself , for since i came into that room yesterday and saw young mr smith lying there on the floor , i could n't bear to look at food .
i do n't know none o your friends .
she is , as she has told us , somewhat deaf but none the less she mentioned in her evidence that she did hear something like a door slamming half an hour before the alarm was given .
that is not danger ,
strange indeed is human nature .
no wonder that it was heavy .
holmes ,
then he leaned the powder bag against it , ripped a hole in it with his knife , and attached the fuse .
the yellow glare from the shop windows streamed out into the steamy , vaporous air , and threw a murky , shifting radiance across the crowded thoroughfare .
have you sent to cleveland ?
was that his work or was it possibly the doing of someone who was bent upon counteracting his schemes ?
i sat with my coffee cup halfway to my lips and stared at barrymore .
we have his cab ,
why any burglar should take such a thing passes my understanding , for it was only a plaster cast and of no real value whatever .
he took a step backward , slammed the little door , and turned the key in the lock .
then with a light spring he came on to the barrel , and from there to the earth .
tokay !
i 'll take the house , furnish it , pay the maids , and run the whole place .
we have only to lay our hands on that man , and the rest will follow .
hunter was obviously under the influence of some powerful drug , and as no sense could be got out of him , he was left to sleep it off while the two lads and the two women ran out in search of the absentees .
witness : it was .
our investigation has been independent , and our action shall be so also .
it is likely that we should have gone on to paris to morrow , only that this good gentleman , mr holmes , came round to us this evening , though how he found us is more than i can think , and he showed us very clearly and kindly that i was wrong and that frank was right , and that we should be putting ourselves in the wrong if we were so secret .
you broke the thread of my thoughts but perhaps it is as well .
i have one here without the fangs , and teddy catches it every night to please the folk in the canteen .
it would of course instantly strike him that he must get rid of the tell tale garments .
i wanted your advice , sir i do n't know what to do and my whole life seems to have gone to pieces .
i suppose when you doctored you found yourself studying cases without thought of a fee ?
pray continue your very interesting statement .
i took it up and examined it .
we were a good sixty feet from the ground , and , look where i would , i could see no foothold , nor as much as a crevice in the brick work .
now we might suppose that this murdered man this douglas whose approaching fate was known by one of the arch criminal 's subordinates had in some way betrayed the chief .
good gracious , holmes !
impossible !
he came in shortly afterwards and passed upstairs .
undoubtedly by the garden path and the back door , from which there is direct access to the study .
you know how to speak to the cops ,
a big p with a flourish above it , e and n smaller ?
it was of a livid chalky white , and with something set and rigid about it which was shockingly unnatural .
i follow my own methods , and tell as much or as little as i choose .
he cried .
it will not be long before he comes .
maybe these men have some reason in what they do .
i welted the little devil with the slack end of the rope for it , but it was done , and i could not undo it again .
you can do what you damn please about that ,
why not ?
what , sir !
and i have no doubt that we shall reach some definite result .
he roared .
there were lockers all round , and wilson , the sham chaplain , knocked one of them in , and pulled out a dozen of brown sherry .
he has a grudge against me .
the third applicant was a man of remarkable appearance .
as sherlock holmes replaced the half crown which he had drawn from his pocket , a fierce looking elderly man strode out from the gate with a hunting crop swinging in his hand .
it was seven o'clock when i awoke , and i set off at once for phelps 's room , to find him haggard and spent after a sleepless night .
this is the man whom we now learn to have been the lodger at the opium den , and to have been the last man to see the gentleman of whom we are in quest .
he continued , pointing to a row of bottles and jars which stood upon a side table .
i could not go there by daylight without provoking comment , but as soon as night fell i hurried off to see my dear arthur .
what justice can she have ?
it seemed to me that not only his features but all his limbs were twisted and turned in the most fantastic fashion .
but i can assure you that the earl of dovercourt would fail to appreciate them .
cried dr mortimer ,
forget what i have said .
bannister licked his dry lips .
subtle enough and horrible enough .
cried a small street arab , running up to us .
he repeated thoughtfully .
i found out where he was through a sailor man that had met him in london , and down i went to squeeze him .
i knew exactly what i was doing , for i knew of the existence of this remarkable gun , and i knew also that one of the best shots in the world would be behind it .
what a stroke of luck !
i seem to have no choice .
i will compress the story as far as may be done without omitting anything vital to the case .
yet when i think of him in cold blood , far away from the glamour of his presence , i am convinced from his cynical speech and the look which i have caught in his eyes that he is one who should be deeply distrusted .
i beg , therefore , that you will moderate your demands , and that you will return the letters at the price i indicate , which is , i assure you , the highest that you can get .
curious , mr baynes , very curious .
yes , i remember .
oh , i daresay by consulting our sales book we could very easily tell you .
here is my monograph upon the tracing of footsteps , with some remarks upon the uses of plaster of paris as a preserver of impresses .
and you thought he was pulled back ?
he sprang from his chair and paced about the room in uncontrollable agitation , with a flush upon his sallow cheeks and a nervous clasping and unclasping of his long thin hands .
suddenly he darted away into the fog .
then i heard of this place curse the hour that the name first fell upon my ears !
i had a word or two with godfrey before he turned in .
whispered holmes .
and mademoiselle 's address ?
how many ?
i suspect myself .
unless we succeed in establishing an alternative theory , this man is lost .
cried her brother .
let me hear the details .
the streets will be crowded , so i trust that you may be in safety .
he takes with him , however , a rather curious associate , who gets over this difficulty , but dips his naked foot into creasote , whence comes toby , and a six mile limp for a half pay officer with a damaged tendo achillis .
good night and may you have all the fortune that you deserve !
consider what the ritual says : how does it run ?
you 'll come with me , will n't you ?
here are paper and pen .
it is often so in such matches , and little lucy is darker far than ever her father was .
that is what she would have done if she had wished to shield the criminal .
i found her to be a silent , pale faced woman , much younger than her husband , not more than thirty , i should think , while he can hardly be less than forty five .
it was fastened on the inner side .
the twenty nine days were evidently the balance of the month which young had promised .
yes , i have one waiting .
but i tell you now that if it is anything against the safety of the fort i will have no truck with it , so you can drive home your knife and welcome .
i kept the road as long as his eye was on me , and then i struck off across the moor and made for the stony hill over which the boy had disappeared .
nothing at all , sir
we had better go up at once .
i call it luck , but it would not have come my way had i not been looking out for it .
well , well , we cannot expect to score every time .
cried lestrade .
inspector macdonald had grown steadily more impressed as the conversation proceeded .
stangerson seemed to be put out at that , but drebber was rather pleased than otherwise .
shall be glad if you will come with me .
the place is lonely , and none shall know of his coming .
no , i can n't say that .
it has no connection with this hideous business to night .
holmes clapped his hands approvingly .
the names of the participators in the deeds of blood and violence done under the name of religion were kept profoundly secret .
he turned back with the inspector , while holmes and i walked slowly across the moor .
well , unless he has a burrow close by or a change of clothes ready , they can hardly miss him .
oh , one more word .
there is much food for thought in richter .
are you hungry , watson ?
i could not help asking .
i have rubber soled tennis shoes .
concealment again , you see .
i wish to the lord that i had shot him then , but i spared him , though i saw his wicked little eyes fixed on my face , as though to remember every feature .
they had been drawn in chalk upon the black wooden door of the tool house , which stands beside the lawn in full view of the front windows .
he had not gone to bed that night but was in the pantry at the back of the house , putting away the silver , when he heard the bell ring violently .
perhaps you can tell us something which may throw some light upon the matter .
oh , you are , are you ?
my soul cried out for revenge .
and what does she propose to do with the photograph ?
but not where such large interests are at stake ?
did n't you ?
jonathan small did not get the treasure because he and his associates were themselves convicts and could not get away .
i shall be either at the house or in the police station all day .
there was a hush at these ominous words , and every face darkened as gloomy looks were exchanged .
he 's forty one years of age , which is mature for marriage .
turning up the cuffs of his dress coat he had placed his overcoat on a chair holmes laid out two drills , a jemmy , and several skeleton keys .
i had , then , to find where the far end of the shadow would fall when the sun was just clear of the oak .
that is very much better .
i have no alternative , mr cunningham ,
yes , lestrade , i congratulate you !
one knew that thus , and only thus , could a solution be found .
as to what you tell me of poor mary , it goes to my very heart .
the very noblest in the land may suffer unless some way be found out of this horrible affair .
i knew not what wild beast we were about to hunt down in the dark jungle of criminal london , but i was well assured , from the bearing of this master huntsman , that the adventure was a most grave one while the sardonic smile which occasionally broke through his ascetic gloom boded little good for the object of our quest .
you can leave your bag .
have you heard anything of the case ?
you should publish an account of the case .
the nobleman swung his glasses a little faster and stared down into the fire .
now , really , i know so little about your company that '
she laughed at the compliment .
i cried .
after all , i thought , we are not injuring her .
whom have i the honour to address ?
did she make it clear why , on reaching her house , she ran into the back kitchen ?
several of those who sat around heard his words and applauded them .
what a woman oh , what a woman !
nine from seven ,
you seemed to me to come out of the floor like a jack in a box .
at the doorway of the howe street flats a man , muffled in a cravat and greatcoat , was leaning against the railing .
he cried ,
for we shall certainly have to go to norwood and see brother bartholomew .
for years i have loved her .
you are certainly right , sir then a third shot has been fired , and therefore a third person must have been present .
my biblical knowledge is a trifle rusty , i fear , but you will find the story in the first or second of samuel .
never .
what is the nearest telegraph office ?
yes , it was in his coat pocket .
i have ordered a carriage ,
do you consider , doctor , that there is immediate danger ?
you must have observed the way in which he held his head and swung his cane .
but what shocked me more than any signs of physical weakness was that his face was grotesquely criss crossed with sticking plaster , and that one large pad of it was fastened over his mouth .
true as steel , every man of them .
quite so .
the original has no date , but is in the spelling of the middle of the seventeenth century , ' remarked musgrave .
that was perfectly clear .
i should not have noticed this one , only it happened to come alone .
holmes had slipped away , but he came back in a few minutes .
i cried .
the lady 's allusions to her past , and her refusal to take her husband into her confidence , both pointed in that direction .
but apart from this popularity , the fear in which he was held throughout the township , and indeed down the whole thirty miles of the valley and past the mountains on each side of it , was enough in itself to fill his bar for none could afford to neglect his good will .
pray give us the essential facts from the commencement , and i can afterwards question you as to those details which seem to me to be most important .
and now , watson , i think that , perhaps , we shall be better employed elsewhere .
in my inmost heart i believed that i could succeed where others failed , and now i had the opportunity to test myself .
it ai n't easy to talk when your lips is like leather , but i guess i 'd best let you know how the cards lie .
so far all had gone admirably .
you have a grand gift of silence , watson ,
some weeks afterwards i learned incidentally that my friend spent a day at windsor , whence he returned with a remarkably fine emerald tie pin .
i will be at your service in an instant , watson .
a glance at our friend here reveals the rounded head of the celt , which carries inside it the celtic enthusiasm and power of attachment .
i join in it because there is no other way in the world by which justice can be gained .
this thaddeus sholto was with his brother there was a quarrel so much we know .
now , mr soames , let us have a look at your servant , bannister .
up to a late hour last night , however , nothing had transpired as to the whereabouts of the missing lady .
it might have been difficult , but friend lestrade held information in his hands the value of which he did not himself know .
what name ?
we have already had experience of such .
but his sullen face showed how little the words of the other had moved him .
the latter managed to have a few whispered words with the prisoner before they parted .
how about the license ?
it should clear up the whole business .
the incident left a most unpleasant impression upon my mind .
as they reached the bottom of the stairs he had seen mrs douglas coming down it .
holmes was down on his knees , examining with great attention the knots upon the red cord with which the lady had been secured .
meanwhile , come what may , colonel moran will trouble us no more .
they did a job at sydenham a fortnight ago and were seen and described .
that my colleague , dr watson , and myself had an assurance from dr huxtable that a reward had been offered in this case .
that your young master is found .
he may find his way in , but never out ,
there are only two , a man and his wife .
the poor fellow has enough to fight against without my putting more upon his track .
if your friend ,
ames had arrived , and we ran back into the room once more .
he would surely have been seen by now .
then she got better at last , all worn to a shadow , and with her beautiful hair cut off but that did n't make no change in her young man , and he stuck to her as true as man could be .
the question came so suddenly that it was well that he had his answer prepared .
there was a hansom just in front of me , and he hailed it .
her rich tints made the white face of her companion the more worn and haggard by the contrast .
i understand that , mr holmes , and it is already settled that he shall leave me forever , and go to seek his fortune in australia .
come into the house ,
the boat was now somewhere south of the suez canal on her way to australia .
then , when the cable came , i knew they were bound to make a move .
well , i 'm not forgetting it ,
i must explain to you , mr holmes , that to morrow is the first day of the examination for the fortescue scholarship .
then , lying on his face , he reached down for the lamp and held it while i followed him .
simon came to ' frisco , and we came to london , and a marriage was arranged , and pa was very pleased , but i felt all the time that no man on this earth would ever take the place in my heart that had been given to my poor frank .
yes that was what brought me here .
i struggled against it , but in vain .
he would fear that the police would read his secret , and so he hastened on before they should get ahead of him .
not a word .
surely there are classified lists ?
it is quite certain that he knows nothing whatever about the matter .
so i heard .
it 's all very well your saying that a man escaped by wading this moat , but what i ask you is , how did he ever get into the house at all if the bridge was up ?
it had seemed to me sometimes that she liked to be alone with me , or to coax me out for a walk with her , but i had never thought anything of that .
we should have acted before this .
it would be premature to say more .
they have always been a terror to shipwrecked crews , braining the survivors with their stone headed clubs , or shooting them with their poisoned arrows .
yes , it is an interesting place , this fighting cock .
drop it !
opening the window very slowly and carefully , they waited until a dark cloud had somewhat obscured the night , and then one by one passed through into the little garden .
read it !
i knew already that sir charles baskerville had made stapleton his almoner upon several occasions , so the lady 's statement bore the impress of truth upon it .
i could arrange a looking glass , maybe , and if you were behind the door
you will excuse my anxiety , miss morstan ,
from the slight smile which played over sherlock holmes 's face , i could see that the speech had not been lost upon him .
that 's the window , mr holmes , which gave us one of the few bits of positive evidence that came out at the inquest .
some one wanted to learn to imitate your writing , and had to procure a specimen of it first .
it frightens me , mr holmes .
i cried , in amazement ,
holmes and his methods were new to him .
you have no warrant for my arrest .
the woman was standing in the aperture , the darkness of the hall behind her , the yellow light from my lamp beating upon her eager and beautiful face .
she always comes to us when she is in town .
yet his zeal for certain studies was remarkable , and within eccentric limits his knowledge was so extraordinarily ample and minute that his observations have fairly astounded me .
i will explain the state of things to you , as far as i have been able to understand it , in a very few words .
i have learned so much during some recent researches which have a medico criminal aspect .
i have not a doubt of it .
as he leaned upon a thick oaken cudgel his shoulders heaved in the effort to draw the air into his lungs .
i would have endured imprisonment , ay , even execution , rather than have left my miserable secret as a family blot to my children .
the afternoon was far advanced and the hot glare had softened into a mellow glow before we found ourselves at the police station .
he was cheery and genial to all , but somewhat offhand in his manners , giving the impression that he had seen life in social strata on some far lower horizon than the county society of sussex .
and now , my dear watson , i think we may dismiss the matter from our mind and go back with a clear conscience to the study of those chaldean roots which are surely to be traced in the cornish branch of the great celtic speech .
in it he told the young man of the imminent danger which threatened them , and how necessary it was that he should return .
we went at once to the lawyer whose name was given in the paper .
he held his open note book upon his knee , and from time to time he jotted down figures and memoranda in the light of his pocket lantern .
far away i could catch glimpses of the old gray building with its bristling tudor chimneys , but the drive ran through a dense shrubbery , and i saw no more of my man .
do you think that you could perform one more feat ?
i can n't understand a spry man of the union finding no work to do in chicago .
here is a copy of the times .
cried mcginty hotly .
i know that it can only be to her advantage that everything should be known .
i went back to the gate and sounded my whistle .
at the end of that time there was a universal rising against him .
he rose as he spoke .
he has a candle in his hand .
sit down in that armchair , doctor , and give us your best attention .
at what time ?
to tell me the truth .
i may look into the matter before then .
both men were total abstainers , and behaved in all ways as exemplary members of the society , with the one simple exception that they were assassins who had often proved themselves to be most capable instruments for this association of murder .
put your head up agin me like that , and then you 'll feel bullier .
he had suffered for years from a weak heart , but he concealed it from every one .
the paper was made in bohemia ,
ah , that is more than i can tell .
no one need know that you have killed him .
at first i thought that she had not recognised me , but as i bent over her she suddenly shrieked out in a voice which i shall never forget , ' oh , my god !
here , for example , is one ' upon the distinction between the ashes of the various tobaccoes .
he has seen too much .
you see the point of my questions , of course .
an enemy ?
that is what mr hilton cubitt , of riding thorpe manor , norfolk , is very anxious to know .
we neither of us care for it .
i yelled .
not a word .
i 'll tell you one thing which may help you in the case ,
only we know of both events , and can trace the relation between them .
you will hurt yourself there if you fall .
he is an elderly man , red faced , white haired , and choleric .
now do try to come , and i shall meet you with the dog cart at winchester .
he was the favorite son , you know , and i sometimes think that my father may have told him more than he ever told me .
never mind .
he had had no answer to his advertisement , he said , and no fresh light had been thrown upon the case .
then how do you know about his rooms ?
one night it was on the twentieth of march , i was returning from a journey to a patient for i had now returned to civil practice , when my way led me through baker street .
it will be a clear night and plenty of light .
in that , however , i was in error .
we waited some time for your signal to night .
i suggested .
when i came to examine the address of the packet i observed that it was to miss s .
i ran down the hill therefore and met the baronet at the bottom .
i do n't know whether you observed it , watson , but the colonel 's manner has been just a trifle cavalier to me .
no , you remember that she was senseless at the moment when the bottle was opened .
oh , you can leave me to deal with him then .
it is in new zealand stock , paying per cent .
we have , however , examined the stables , and there is nothing to connect him with the affair .
the road from chiltern grange is a lonely one , and at one spot it is particularly so , for it lies for over a mile between charlington heath upon one side and the woods which lie round charlington hall upon the other .
the cheek was lovely but it was paled with emotion , the eyes were bright but it was the brightness of fever , the sensitive mouth was tight and drawn in an effort after self command .
he can find something ,
he made odious love to me , boasted of his wealth , said that if i married him i could have the finest diamonds in london , and finally , when i would have nothing to do with him , he seized me in his arms one day after dinner he was hideously strong and swore that he would not let me go until i had kissed him .
i knew that moriarty was not the only man who had sworn my death .
he gasped , looking hard at me to see if i was in earnest .
i remembered your theory of the affair and tried to picture all that had occurred .
out of the black shadows there glimmered little red circles of light , now bright , now faint , as the burning poison waxed or waned in the bowls of the metal pipes .
whom do you think that is to ?
there is a seal of red wax stamped with a crouching lion .
i opened his despatch box , took the paper , and conveyed it to godolphin street .
i put it to you , mr holmes , judging it by what we have heard .
i had forgotten the strange pets which the doctor affected .
i then walked slowly down the garden path , which happened to be composed of a clay soil , peculiarly suitable for taking impressions .
among other things , he had a long bamboo spear , and some andaman cocoa nut matting , with which i made a sort of sail .
i want you , mr hall pycroft , to tell my friend your very interesting experience exactly as you have told it to me , or with more detail if possible .
dear me , how did i get talking about him ?
and now i come to the amazing part of my tale .
if you saw the look in those dark , hungry eyes of his when they fall on me !
he therefore put pressure upon mrs lyons to write this letter , imploring the old man to give her an interview on the evening before his departure for london .
neither did he appear to have pursued any course of reading which might fit him for a degree in science or any other recognized portal which would give him an entrance into the learned world .
this case will make a stir , sir ,
there is little more to tell .
i 'll see that you shall know , come what may .
the latter looked out with three tiers of vacant melancholy windows , which were blank and dreary , save that here and there a to let card had developed like a cataract upon the bleared panes .
an instant afterwards he gave a little cry of satisfaction , and , following the direction of his eager eyes , i saw that a hansom cab with a man inside which had halted on the other side of the street was now proceeding slowly onward again .
upon my word , watson , there is something very attractive about that livid face at the window , and i would not have missed the case for worlds .
if garcia could do whatever he had to do and be back by the hour mentioned he had evidently a powerful reply to any accusation .
again and again his word has decided the national policy .
so we just had to leave that detail to take care of itself .
he must have been a cool hand .
the manager clapped his two hands to the wound and doubled himself up .
i 'm a consulting detective , if you can understand what that is .
i was hoping that if the paper on which he wrote was thin , some trace of it might come through upon this polished surface .
the man gave a hoarse cry of grief , which rang through the house .
the matter was so prearranged that it is my belief that they brought with them some sort of block or pulley which might serve as a gallows .
may have been his client .
of course , i could only stammer out my thanks .
it may be so placed as to be only visible from here .
oh , dear !
it had cleared in the morning , and the sun was shining with a subdued brightness through the dim veil which hangs over the great city .
we would have you know , however , that in this county and in other counties of these parts we have certain rites , and also certain duties of our own which call for good men .
it looked to me like a long knife .
then , for god 's sake , what was this dark business which was acted in my house last night ?
this , then , is the way by which number one entered .
ah , you have him there !
the wretched young man arose , and with a last beseeching glance at us walked from the room .
is my nose knocked a little out of the straight ?
she gave a gasp , and her head dropped back in the chair .
but she would not express either surprise or regret over the fate of oldacre .
i naturally began by examining the roadway , and there , as i have already explained to you , i saw clearly the marks of a cab , which , i ascertained by inquiry , must have been there during the night .
i propose to make a little investigation of my own to night , and it is just possible that it may contribute something to the common cause .
mrs hudson was waiting , trembling and weeping , in the passage .
i was going to say that my practice could get along very well for a day or two , since it is the slackest time in the year .
do n't move !
i so seldom hear of the work that i thought it was quite dead ,
his face was drawn and haggard .
what sort of fool 's talk is this ?
that is what mr lestrade , of scotland yard , looks upon as so serious .
it would not have been a surprise to him .
he blurted out at last , with a very red face .
on reaching scotland yard , however , it was more than an hour before we could get inspector gregson and comply with the legal formalities which would enable us to enter the house .
how did you trace it , then ?
half a million , small ?
the brother scribbled a note upon a leaf of his pocket book , and , ringing the bell , he handed it to the waiter .
i will soon make it clear to you ,
you can see where they rested the body .
what is that ?
she did not attempt to conceal her hatred for her late employer .
with this train of reasoning in my head i naturally looked about in mortimer tregennis 's room to find some remains of this substance .
are there not fifty murders to prove it ?
then oberstein had this idea about the trains which halted under his back window .
no one but mr mccarthy was in favour of it .
he 's got the dibbs , he has , and where do you think he is at this moment ?
see that you keep yourself out of my grip ,
what shall i do ?
as to those papers with which you are making so free , i may tell you that in case there should be anything of any value among them , you will be held strictly to account for what you do with them .
it lay scattered , in splintered shards , upon the grass .
lucy parr , who had brought in the coffee , had , i am sure , left the room but i cannot swear that the door was closed .
indeed !
he was an aged man , clad in seafaring garb , with an old pea jacket buttoned up to his throat .
this empty house is my tree , and you are my tiger .
it was holmes who broke the silence .
the very pills which i suspected in the case of drebber are actually found after the death of stangerson .
he cried ,
the dog he bought in london from ross and mangles , the dealers in fulham road .
the foreign host , the foreign footman , the foreign cook , all had vanished in the night !
but this writing opens up
my god !
she flies from him at last , returns to england , changes her name , and starts her life , as she thinks , afresh .
the case is as plain as a pikestaff , and the more one goes into it the plainer it becomes .
personally , he was convinced that the murderer had escaped by the window .
he saw every step which i took to draw my toils round him .
what 's your name , and what are you here for ?
not more than is usual in my family .
he had stopped mrs douglas and begged her to go back .
but , even as it stands , we have surely gone a long way .
i think after breakfast we must make a little reconnaissance of mrs warren 's neighbourhood .
the laugh faded from his lips , and he stared at me in great surprise .
i hope that i have said nothing to pain you ?
i took up the envelope and saw scrawled in red ink upon the inner flap , just above the gum , the letter k three times repeated .
i have not the heart to interrupt your breakfast any further , and yet i am dying to know how you got it and where it was .
but it was not destined that our investigation should have so adventurous an ending .
it was quite a quarter of an hour before i got my mouth free .
what do you think , watson ?
i thank heaven that my compunction at leaving poor staunton all alone in this plight caused me to turn my carriage back and so to make your acquaintance .
the matter is very important .
what do you want ?
madam ,
you know ,
well , i tell you it was just after we arrived .
if it turns red , it means a man 's life .
what sort of a job did you make of it ?
i know , my dear watson , that you share my love of all that is bizarre and outside the conventions and humdrum routine of everyday life .
we had a pleasant little meal together , during which holmes would talk about nothing but violins , narrating with great exultation how he had purchased his own stradivarius , which was worth at least five hundred guineas , at a jew broker 's in tottenham court road for fifty five shillings .
by an inspection of the trains , and by reckoning the time .
why should i attempt to conceal it ?
you do yourself an injustice .
instantly i made my way back to my room , and very shortly came the stealthy steps passing once more upon their return journey .
we all gazed expectantly at the closed door .
immediately beyond there was a bowl shaped depression in the moor , and at the bottom of this was found the dead body of the unfortunate trainer .
charles augustus milverton , appledore towers , hampstead .
i cried half mad with grief and rage .
but i was still far from satisfied .
halfway down is the moor gate , where the old gentleman left his cigar ash .
he found holmes leaning languidly against the mantelpiece , resigned and patient , endeavouring to conceal his irrepressible yawns .
he had suffered for years from an enlarged spleen , but he now became rapidly worse , and towards the end of april we were informed that he was beyond all hope , and that he wished to make a last communication to us .
well , i must confess that it beats me .
lord harringby , the dingle sir george ffolliott , oxshott towers mr hynes hynes , j .
well , the matter ended by a second meeting , at which mahomet singh , abdullah khan , and dost akbar were all present .
and yet there should be no combination of events for which the wit of man cannot conceive an explanation .
there was the click of the closing handcuffs .
you will observe that the paper is torn away at the side here after the printing was done , so that the ' s ' of ' soap ' is partly gone .
and ' who did you sell the geese to ?
and that 's the truth and the whole truth , mr holmes , if it costs me my neck .
cyril overton pressed his hands to his head .
i owe you too much to act otherwise for in all my experience i cannot recall any more singular and interesting study .
it was nearly nightfall , and we had eaten nothing since early morning , so that we spent some time over our meal .
and i 'm not saying that you have not read the truth .
he might slip away from us in the crowd of regent street , but it would puzzle him to do so upon the lonely moor .
for years i 've been dreaming of the bright green fields and the hedges of england .
i had some difficulty in finding his house , however , and it was nearly half past before i reached it .
the professor declares that he heard the distant cry , but that he knows nothing more .
get it back again !
and over here is what appears to be the fragment of a hotel bill , which interests me deeply .
you must also put in a note to say that all the other papers were burned by your uncle , and that this is the only one which remains .
but the sympathies of the latter were with the mother ?
i have come to you , mr holmes ,
why , it 's a dummy ,
but if it was about a boat , sir , maybe i could serve as well .
it is so vast , and so barren , and so mysterious .
it was noticeable that lucas did not take mitton on the continent with him .
yes , this is the great agra treasure .
then i shall never see her .
quite so .
the fellow was a rascal from the beginning , but , in some extraordinary way , james became intimate with him .
only one little item in another of the morning papers , but it is a suggestive one .
he is a genius , a philosopher , an abstract thinker .
i cried , as i cast my eye over it ,
envelopes at sixpence a packet .
if my view of the case is correct , and i have every reason to believe that it is , this man would rather risk anything than lose the ring .
so i 've heard godfrey say .
it is , however , unfortunately impossible entirely to separate the sensational from the criminal , and a chronicler is left in the dilemma that he must either sacrifice details which are essential to his statement and so give a false impression of the problem , or he must use matter which chance , and not choice , has provided him with .
there 's no town without a lodge , and where there is a lodge i 'll find my friends .
that will do ,
i 'd put him at forty years of age , and he was of a middle height , two or three inches shorter than you , sir he was dressed like a toff , and he had a black beard , cut square at the end , and a pale face .
i was shaving at my window in the morning when i heard the rattle of hoofs and , looking up , saw a dog cart coming at a gallop down the road .
by gar !
but very superficial ,
naturally , it was to my interest to buy their land before they discovered its true value , but unfortunately i had no capital by which i could do this .
i can assure you that you are wasting your time in dogging my movements .
there was a world of sarcasm in his voice as he spoke .
what part of the table ?
and yet this wretched dog is none the worse .
was it to your wife that you were writing ?
strange ,
through the gateway we passed into the avenue , where the wheels were again hushed amid the leaves , and the old trees shot their branches in a sombre tunnel over our heads .
but what is all this ?
but he has a gentleman staying with him , a patient , as i understand , who is a foreigner , and he looks as if a little good berkshire beef would do him no harm .
you do n't think that it might have been two shots fired almost at the same instant ?
yet the long journey and the accumulated terrors had shaken the hearts of the stoutest among them .
it was obvious to me that my companion 's mind was now made up about the case , although what his conclusions were was more than i could even dimly imagine .
and how did you localize me ?
this is treasure trove indeed .
it was in the year ' that a combination of events , into which i need not enter , caused mr sherlock holmes and myself to spend some weeks in one of our great university towns , and it was during this time that the small but instructive adventure which i am about to relate befell us .
good night , sir , and thank you !
well , you have to be blooded some time .
your majesty has something which i should value even more highly ,
groaned our visitor .
now run down stairs , loose the dog , and look out for blondin .
lodgers often have them .
he writhed his hands together as he stood , and his features were in a perpetual jerk , now smiling , now scowling , but never for an instant in repose .
no , sir , but the facts might be met speciously enough .
we have not done so , nor is it possible that we should do so .
two days later this same performance was gone through under exactly similar circumstances .
it was he that was hurt , not she .
tell inspector patterson that the papers which he needs to convict the gang are in pigeonhole m .
but it looks like revelry .
but this is inconceivable impossible .
i had formed my conclusions as to the case before our client came into the room .
i read .
there 's been a gentleman here asking for you , sir
it may seem to point very straight to one thing , but if you shift your own point of view a little , you may find it pointing in an equally uncompromising manner to something entirely different .
huddled groups of mean , wooden houses , the windows of which were beginning to outline themselves in light , were scattered here and there along the line , and the frequent halting places were crowded with their swarthy inhabitants .
he curled himself up in his chair , with his thin knees drawn up to his hawk like nose , and there he sat with his eyes closed and his black clay pipe thrusting out like the bill of some strange bird .
i 've had bad news terrible news , mr holmes ,
the country seems to be full of the fugitives with yellow coats .
but how about the other man 's height ?
well , i have a trade of my own .
she seemed for an instant to wish to shrink back inside the house again and then , seeing how useless all concealment must be , she came forward , with a very white face and frightened eyes which belied the smile upon her lips .
holmes dismissed the subject with a wave .
one day , however , as i ascended the stair , i met mr rucastle coming out through this door , his keys in his hand , and a look on his face which made him a very different person to the round , jovial man to whom i was accustomed .
same hour .
they 'll find they 've started in to monkey with the wrong man unless they are careful .
it was the simplest thing in the world for him to take a wax impression from the seal , to moisten it in as much blood as he could get from a pin prick , and to put the mark upon the wall during the night , either with his own hand or with that of his housekeeper .
these are daring men , and though we shall take them at a disadvantage , they may do us some harm unless we are careful .
however , there 's no good talking any more about it , watson but unless some lucky chance comes our way i fear that the norwood disappearance case will not figure in that chronicle of our successes which i foresee that a patient public will sooner or later have to endure .
she came with the intention of possessing herself of certain documents which were in your bureau .
i want to see whether the objections are fatal , or if they may be explained away .
i may remind you ,
no , i shall commence with the city .
we had left the fertile country behind and beneath us .
drebber , of cleveland ?
to day i was not alarmed , but i was filled with curiosity , and i determined to find out who he was and what he wanted .
my niece , mary , has deserted me .
born london , .
i feel it in my bones .
i 'm bound to say that i make nothing of the note except that there was something on hand , and that a woman , as usual was at the bottom of it .
then , when the row broke out , i had a little moist red paint in the palm of my hand .
report to me if anything fresh occurs , and rely upon my assistance if it should be needed .
i vowed that , come what might , it should be a secret no longer .
could it not have been dropped from a bridge ?
we would do better in the area .
i was a fairly good dispenser , so i worked this alkaloid into small , soluble pills , and each pill i put in a box with a similar pill made without the poison .
i had been delayed at a case , and it was a little after half past six when i found myself in baker street once more .
is it that they shall themselves become tyrants over the very men who have given them shelter , and that a state of terrorism and lawlessness should be established under the very shadow of the sacred folds of the starry flag of freedom which would raise horror in our minds if we read of it as existing under the most effete monarchy of the east ?
the men stopped and gathered in a yard which faced a high building .
a devil with merely local powers like a parish vestry would be too inconceivable a thing .
this willoughby smith has nothing against him , either as a boy at uppingham or as a young man at cambridge .
it is a bad thing to speak of , but i will answer you the truth .
i am convinced , sir ,
the ladder was not there when the rucastles went away .
how came you to leave the key in the door ?
good god !
no , no , i had everything out .
the maid is prepared to swear that those were the exact words .
we had an example of his readiness of resource that morning when he got away from us so successfully , and also of his audacity in sending back my own name to me through the cabman .
i cannot imagine .
he had hardly spoken before there rushed into the room one of the most lovely young women that i have ever seen in my life .
lestrade .
the aborigines of the andaman islands may perhaps claim the distinction of being the smallest race upon this earth , though some anthropologists prefer the bushmen of africa , the digger indians of america , and the terra del fuegians .
he and his master dragged me to my room and held judgment upon me as a convicted traitress .
i think , watson , that you are now standing in the presence of one of the most absolute fools in europe .
it 's truth he says ,
and yet i hate to think of this old scandal gaining a new lease of life .
you seem most fortunate in having an employ who comes under the full market price .
it was on a bitterly cold and frosty morning , towards the end of the winter of ' , that i was awakened by a tugging at my shoulder .
your beer should be excellent if it is as good as your geese ,
anything which may seem to have a bearing however indirect upon the case , and especially the relations between young baskerville and his neighbours or any fresh particulars concerning the death of sir charles .
yes , sir , i do , and i am ready enough to tell what i know .
a loud thudding noise came from somewhere downstairs .
his death was an absolute mystery and likely to remain so .
pray allow me to keep the papers .
he raised his head with a sudden jerk .
no , my friend , you might find me a dangerous guest .
that is easily answered .
have you had inquiries made at inns and lodgings ?
they had strolled out on to the terrace again , and along it to the further end where at a touch from the baron 's chauffeur the great car shivered and chuckled .
at half past seven next morning , in the first glimmer of daylight , i found him standing by my bedside in his dressing gown .
i chanced into the telegraph bureau , and he was leaving it .
dr mortimer is a most learned man in his own line .
i have often wished that i had notes of those cases .
when i had listened to all they had to tell , i began to walk up and down near briony lodge once more , and to think over my plan of campaign .
not in the least .
sometimes the chords were sonorous and melancholy .
yes , for strangers to travel ,
why should we not seize him at once ?
it is of course a conceivable theory that this william kirwan though he had the reputation of being an honest man , may have been in league with the thief .
you say that the man came ten days ago and paid you for a fortnight 's board and lodging ?
they spent a hilarious night , without an anxious thought as to the ordeal of the morning .
he sat down opposite to me , drew the lamp to the edge of the table , and handed me a short note scribbled , as you see , upon a single sheet of gray paper .
it is one of these cases but , hullo , here is lestrade !
this small pellet is , i presume , the black , doughy mass you spoke of .
i glanced down at my hand , which was throbbing painfully , and then , for the first time , saw that my thumb had been cut off and that the blood was pouring from my wound .
this is grosvenor mixture at eightpence an ounce ,
the campaign brought honours and promotion to many , but for me it had nothing but misfortune and disaster .
it was he .
there was no truth , mr holmes , in the conjecture which seemed to us to be probable in your rooms at baker street .
i ejaculated .
having rallied , with the elasticity of childhood , from the shock caused by her mother 's death , she soon became a pet with the women , and reconciled herself to this new life in her moving canvas covered home .
i believe that a single lady can get on very nicely upon an income of about pounds .
meanwhile , i am much obliged to you for your courteous acquiescence .
such were the methods of the society of freemen , and such were the deeds of the scowrers by which they spread their rule of fear over the great and rich district which was for so long a period haunted by their terrible presence .
if you will work with me i can arrange everything .
it came out upon the landing opposite to a second more ornamental stair which came up from the front hall .
i did but his face would become very grave and he would shake his head .
at that instant there was a sharp click , the jangling of metal , and sherlock holmes sprang to his feet again .
i would n't hurt a hair of your bonny head for all that the world can give , nor ever pull you down one inch from the golden throne above the clouds where i always see you .
my dear watson , there we come into those realms of conjecture , where the most logical mind may be at fault .
when a doctor does go wrong he is the first of criminals .
his grandfather was a royal duke , and he himself has been to eton and oxford .
on our way we had to pass through hudson street , which is a very quiet thoroughfare .
then i will tell you , relying entirely upon your honour and that of your colleague , dr watson .
but it was a weary day for me .
i am this man 's wife .
i found plenty of work to do ,
mr lucas is an unmarried man , thirty four years of age , and his establishment consists of mrs pringle , an elderly housekeeper , and of mitton , his valet .
how do you come to know it ?
it was no sight for a woman .
it is likely that his main idea was to burgle the house but mr douglas chanced to come upon him , so he murdered him and escaped .
that was bad enough , but worse was to come .
to do what ?
highly honoured , sir , i am sure .
the charred ashes of the overnight fire lay in the grate .
we can only give you three minutes to decide , for the time is passing , and all must be done before the rounds come again .
i am birdy edwards !
what became of him ?
i called in the local police , but without success .
they often vanish before the ceremony , and occasionally during the honeymoon but i cannot call to mind anything quite so prompt as this .
it was so thick that nothing could be seen , and we had no difficulty in lowering west 's body on to the train .
could you tell me if this was so ?
not at all , my boy .
it is no wonder that it did not wake you .
but , as miss morstan remarked just now , it is late , and we had best put the matter through without delay .
he had already put all his knowledge at the disposal of the police .
yes , the reaction is already upon me .
we have had inquiries made as to any stranger seen on the country roads or at the railway station .
he shall answer for this deed .
his visit to my room must have been within a very few minutes of my leaving it .
when the youth had been dispatched with the note , sherlock holmes gave his instructions to the servants .
i am partial to the modern french school .
had the prosaic finding of the coroner not finally put an end to the romantic stories which have been whispered in connection with the affair , it might have been difficult to find a tenant for baskerville hall .
exactly the father and two sons .
in all essentials it was the same ear .
there is n't a cat in it , for example ?
my head is in a whirl ,
a letter had come into the town that would have set you wise to it all .
these people always clear out when they hear of trouble , for they do not wish to be pestered by the police .
i managed to see him on a plausible pretext , but i seemed to read in his dark , deepset , brooding eyes that he was perfectly aware of my true business .
so little that it was evident that he had carefully guarded himself against identification .
the word rache , written in letters of blood ,
the keen interest had passed out of holmes 's expressive face , and i knew that with the mystery all the charm of the case had departed .
a wondrous subtle thing is love , for here were we two who had never seen each other before that day , between whom no word or even look of affection had ever passed , and yet now in an hour of trouble our hands instinctively sought for each other .
my dear watson , i have no doubt that you can remember tadpole phelps , who was in the fifth form when you were in the third .
let us drink the quarrelling toast of the lodge .
that the cares of medical practice have not entirely obliterated the interest which you used to take in our little deductive problems
there are rumours of foul play in the matter , and it is said that the police have caused the arrest of the woman who had caused the original disturbance , in the belief that , from jealousy or some other motive , she may have been concerned in the strange disappearance of the bride .
what is it , uncle ?
i kept miss harrison in it all day so that he might not anticipate us .
the prediction of the mormon was only too well fulfilled .
never mind the old girl here , but come along with me now straight away .
it ai n't night yet ,
madam , what you ask me is really impossible .
thank you ,
it would be inhuman not to answer his call .
my dear fellow , you have been invaluable to me in this as in many other cases , and i beg that you will forgive me if i have seemed to play a trick upon you .
it is as clear as daylight ,
anyone else ?
but what possible connection ?
in any case he would very soon learn it from his friend dr mortimer , and he was told by the latter all details about the arrival of henry baskerville .
well , watson , we seem to have fallen upon evil days ,
well , why did they want him to do it ?
if you sign it the whole matter will be settled .
the will is very clear upon that point .
halloa !
man , or at least criminal man , has lost all enterprise and originality .
our visitor bore every mark of being an average commonplace british tradesman , obese , pompous , and slow .
good morning , lanner ,
one struck , and two , and we had almost for the second time given it up in despair when in an instant we both sat bolt upright in our chairs with all our weary senses keenly on the alert once more .
having done this , he drew up the windows on each side , and i found to my astonishment that they were covered with paper so as to prevent my seeing through them .
i should prefer that you do not mention my name at all in connection with the case , as i choose to be only associated with those crimes which present some difficulty in their solution .
of course we know that a hound does not bite a dead body and that sir charles was dead before ever the brute overtook him .
cried lestrade .
you can imagine , watson , how shocked both his son and i were .
across the cover was printed in golden letters practical handbook of bee culture .
for an instant only .
i have no doubt that the house might have been purchased at the price which holmes paid for his rooms during the years that i was with him .
and what salary do you ask ?
but i suppose you want us to come out to morrow ?
the villain sholto went off to india , but he never came back again .
she was bending over her knitting and stopping occasionally to stroke a large black cat upon a stool beside her .
dear me , staples , how often have i said that i am not to be disturbed in my hours of study ?
he sat for some little time in silence , absorbed in the strange drama which had broken in upon our peace .
he rushed across the glade , holmes and i at his heels .
at the end of that time she shall give her answer .
for an hour or more he was at work , returning at last with his feet heavy with snow and his features as inscrutable as ever .
the hoarse voice of the seaman broke in on our conversation .
murmured the old man again .
a patient , evidently , and possibly an all night sitting .
i greeted the lady with reserve .
after that came a long newspaper story about how a miners ' camp had been attacked by apache indians , and there was my frank 's name among the killed .
some time later garcia looked in at my door the room was dark at the time and asked me if i had rung .
one 's first impression is that they are entirely soft .
we had shaken off lord mount james , and overton had gone to consult with the other members of his team over the misfortune which had befallen them .
mr sidney johnson , the senior clerk .
here you are , and here you will stay until i will otherwise .
i wondered , as i always did , how it had not been obvious to me before .
poor arthur fell into the trap .
those are the facts of the case , doctor , and if they are of any use to your collection , i am sure that they are very heartily at your service .
it was alone before .
it was the palmer tires .
i was still rather raw over the deception which had been practised upon me , but the warmth of holmes 's praise drove my anger from my mind .
this must be serious , watson .
what other indications have we as to the nature of this large book ?
it seems to have been a very deliberate affair .
i could n't raise it until they went .
the ship reached cape town last night .
the man lived and he got off with a year .
but maybe you are the surgeons .
easy , councillor !
well , watson , you have done all that a good friend could .
for myself , i used to stand outside the gate way , looking down on the broad , winding river and on the twinkling lights of the great city .
purely negative as yet ,
how do you know that he values it highly ?
well , then , i take our powder or what remains of it from the envelope , and i lay it above the burning lamp .
you ai n't even a friend of ours .
you seem glib enough in your tests .
i 'm on the brink of the grave , and i am not likely to lie to you .
no , no , everything is now in order .
here also i find an account of the addleton tragedy , and the singular contents of the ancient british barrow .
just at the crowded hour one night , the door opened and a man entered with the quiet blue uniform and peaked cap of the mine police .
you villain !
how about that hour of darkness in which the power of evil is exalted ?
holmes was seated at his side table clad in his dressing gown , and working hard over a chemical investigation .
one other question ,
this is all right , watson ,
there were pride , valour , and strength in his thick brows , his sensitive nostrils , and his large hazel eyes .
you have been reading the papers diligently of late , have you not ?
he was a tall , handsome , swarthy fellow , clad in a suit of gray flannel , with a panama hat , a bristling black beard , and a great , aggressive hooked nose , and flourishing a cane as he walked .
i only mention the greuze because it brings the matter within the range of your own observation .
that is quite settled ,
his face was thin and brown and crafty , with a perpetual smile upon it , which showed an irregular line of yellow teeth , and his crinkled hands were half closed in a way that is distinctive of sailors .
a break in the chain
i heard a little sigh of satisfaction as he cuddled the butt into his shoulder and saw that amazing target , the black man on the yellow ground , standing clear at the end of his foresight .
he and i and many more .
all the threads which have formed such a tangle .
what is the use of asking me questions when i tell you i know nothing whatever about it ?
so painful a scandal may well be allowed to die out .
in that case , no doubt his family
do you think a woman could go alone at that hour to a bachelor 's house ?
when a woman has been seriously wronged by a man she no longer oscillates , and the usual symptom is a broken bell wire .
quite so !
these details only struck our attention afterwards , for our thoughts were entirely absorbed by the terrible object which lay upon the tigerskin hearthrug in front of the fire .
she was flattered by the gentleman 's attentions , and the effect was increased by the loudly expressed admiration of her mother .
i knew the firm for which this man worked .
unhappily , murillo heard of his excellence , recalled him on some pretext , and had him shot .
the surprise was not all on one side , i assure you .
someone has tried to force this also .
quite so .
there , do n't slop it about !
now , would you have the kindness to go into your room and bar your shutters ?
mrs oldmore , too i seem to remember the name .
you never heard any speculation as to what it meant ?
this , of course , if we could definitely prove it , would turn lestrade 's argument against himself , for who would steal a thing if he knew that he would shortly inherit it ?
when we turned him over , the boots recognized him at once as being the same gentleman who had engaged the room under the name of joseph stangerson .
in that case money is found for his bail or his defence .
perhaps that was why she had not heard the shot but in any case the study was a long way off .
still , of course , in america they look upon these things in a different way .
it is him whom you must ask .
on the stock was engraved ' ss .
you know what awaits you , then ?
then suddenly , with a fierce gesture of his closed hand , like one who throws reserve to the winds , he began .
oh , just as you like ,
you are fresh from a night journey , i understand , which is in itself a monotonous occupation .
if you have no answer , it may go badly with you at the trial .
what can he want ?
the inspector sat down at his desk .
on the contrary , i think that we have both shown extraordinary patience towards him , i answered .
that will do ,
you have not even condescended to say good morning .
the man drew out paper and tobacco and twirled the one up in the other with surprising dexterity .
i do n't suppose i should have done so had i not known this legend .
you will find some books over there .
why should he not go to the home of his fathers ?
as it is , you were some hundreds of yards away and can tell me even less than miss smith .
now , then !
it was past eleven o clock when we formed our little ambuscade .
same place .
if holmes could work to find the criminals , i had a tenfold stronger reason to urge me on to find the treasure .
the suspicions of the police then rested upon young gorot , who , as you may remember , stayed over time in the office that night .
in the early dawn i woke with a start , and was surprised to find him standing by my bedside , clad in a rude sailor dress with a pea jacket , and a coarse red scarf round his neck .
but there was a delay in that answering telegram , and two days of impatience followed , during which holmes pricked up his ears at every ring of the bell .
holmes suddenly bent his strength upon it , but without result .
there is an excellent archway down yonder in case a too zealous policeman should intrude .
but , by thunder , the whole countryside seems to have been out to see me do my wooing and a mighty poor wooing at that !
however that may be , i was certainly relieved when our cab pulled up with a jerk and the coachman sprang down to open the door .
meanwhile i have already set inquiries on foot .
when was this interview ?
in the example which you read to me ,
the shutters cut off the least ray of light , and we waited in absolute darkness .
foul with mire , with a bristling beard , and hung with matted hair , it might well have belonged to one of those old savages who dwelt in the burrows on the hillsides .
i should have more faith ,
and a widower .
i need not say that i rushed for my coat and my hat .
is mrs watson in ?
we must go up and have it out with our friend , the professor .
finally stapleton turned upon his heel and beckoned in a peremptory way to his sister , who , after an irresolute glance at sir henry , walked off by the side of her brother .
curious people , watson !
two constables guarded the narrow gate , but they allowed me to pass with the dog on my mentioning the detective 's name .
what happened there , madam ?
then i broke my blue ribbon and began to drink again , but i think i should not have done it if mary had been the same as ever .
after walks has shown me splashes upon his trousers , and told me by their colour and consistence in what part of london he had received them .
it 's a fiend out of hell that i should be if i abused it .
when i saw that your launch must catch us , i put the loot away in a safe place .
nearly eleven .
i 'm new here , mr mcginty .
one other detail of interest was remembered by jane stewart , the housemaid .
it is a very deeply planned and cold blooded murder .
there was a murmur of sympathy and admiration from the miners at the dauntless demeanour of the newcomer , while the two policemen shrugged their shoulders and renewed a conversation between themselves .
i caught a glimpse of dr armstrong within , his shoulders bowed , his head sunk on his hands , the very image of distress .
he is the son of the old caretaker , who is dead .
born in .
yes , sir on my very counter , sir ,
she was quiet when she saw that there was no good in making a row .
i 've got him .
had he discovered a gold mine , greater delight could not have shone upon his features .
now , i make a point of never having any prejudices , and of following docilely wherever fact may lead me , and so , in the very first stage of the investigation , i found myself looking a little askance at the part which had been played by mr alec cunningham .
the clerk gorot has been shadowed all these nine weeks , but without result .
fine things !
how did you get here ?
pray resume your seat and let me know how i can serve you .
his name is armitage percy armitage the second son of mr armitage , of crane water , near reading .
it must be our first duty to see her both of us tomorrow .
the window was open , and she distinctly saw his face , which she describes as being terribly agitated .
mark that point .
clearly , the pungent smell of the creasote rose high above all other contending scents .
there are small windows on each side , which were covered by curtains and never opened .
but now we come on the nasty , angular , uncompromising bits which will n't slip into their places .
that is hardly true .
now , at last your wanderings have come to an end , for either you or i shall never see to morrow 's sun rise .
making ready for a move ?
i sat up in amazement .
let us turn to something brighter .
he was my benefactor , and all my desire was to carry out his wishes in every particular .
every day , and sometimes twice a day , i have been able but wait a moment , dr watson .
but the times is a paper which is seldom found in any hands but those of the highly educated .
it was nearly six o'clock ,
why , a yankee crook would be into that with a can opener .
now , how can that be unless it were by a left handed man ?
barrymore , sir charles 's butler , is a man with a full , black beard .
i hardly dared hope that you would come .
i am sure i am very much obliged to you for coming round .
one moment , gregson ,
at the head was written : baskerville hall , and below in large , scrawling figures : .
by profession i am a hydraulic engineer , and i have had considerable experience of my work during the seven years that i was apprenticed to venner matheson , the well known firm , of greenwich .
do n't know may be anything .
we walked across the drawbridge , and were admitted by a quaint , gnarled , dried up person , who was the butler , ames .
save from what we heard , we cannot even swear to the existence of the latter , since sir henry has evidently died from the fall .
i hardly expect to go back to briarbrae ,
as i came down the stairs i saw mary herself at the side window of the hall , which she closed and fastened as i approached .
the lad continued his work without regarding us .
right through his broad breast a steel harpoon had been driven , and it had sunk deep into the wood of the wall behind him .
we 'll get him in .
she was of the german type , blonde and fair haired , with the piquant contrast of a pair of beautiful dark eyes with which she surveyed the stranger with surprise and a pleasing embarrassment which brought a wave of colour over her pale face .
but it has at least the saving grace of antiquity to excuse it .
so it is .
and , i say , doctor , there may be some little danger , so kindly put your army revolver in your pocket .
i clambered out upon the sill , but i hesitated to jump until i should have heard what passed between my saviour and the ruffian who pursued me .
that was not literally true .
yes , it is all we can do to make him wash his hands , and his face is as black as a tinker 's .
not in the least ,
are a person 's initials .
a horse so treated would develop a slight lameness , which would be put down to a strain in exercise or a touch of rheumatism , but never to foul play .
but your whole correspondence and relations with oberstein are within our knowledge .
at last the little money which i had saved began to run short , and i was at my wit 's end as to what i should do .
it was characteristic of the man that the direction was a precise , and the writing as firm and clear , as though it had been written in his study .
at the same time , there is much that is unexplained , and i should strongly recommend that you ask mr douglas to tell us his own story .
get behind him , watson !
the commissionaire plumped down into a chair and stared from one to the other of us .
the very first key fitted to perfection , and i drew the drawer open .
a passenger who passed aldgate in an ordinary metropolitan train about : on monday night declares that he heard a heavy thud , as of a body striking the line , just before the train reached the station .
through this we slipped , and then in the gathering gloom we followed holmes until we had reached a shrubbery which lies nearly opposite to the main door and the drawbridge .
the man cried .
enter the tramp !
it was no joke , as you will find to your cost .
the ideal reasoner ,
very few governesses in england are getting pounds a year .
the company had come to a halt , more sober men , as you may guess , than when they started .
i started off , mr holmes , but when i got to that address it was a manufactory of artificial knee caps , and no one in it had ever heard of either mr william morris or mr duncan ross .
he had met me on the road , and i had asked him to tell me where professor coram lived , not knowing that he was in his employ .
every two hours the officer of the night used to come round to all the posts , to make sure that all was well .
i noted , in passing , that she had written a note before leaving home but after being fully dressed .
this is no time for despair .
he won .
that will do .
sometimes he was making progress and whistled and sang at his work sometimes he was puzzled , and would sit for long spells with a furrowed brow and a vacant eye .
he observed , as we drove to scotland yard .
only two days before the wedding , there was a paragraph in the morning post to say that it was all off .
he rejoiced that they should all be there to take counsel over his news .
then in an instant it was all clear to me .
it was in the latter days of september , and the equinoctial gales had set in with exceptional violence .
i found him
what do you say to that , mr baynes ?
i would n't bet on that .
so now , my dear fellow , you see exactly how we stand and why it is i want you .
we know that a man is being done to death , and every hour may be vital .
this is mr jabez wilson , and he is willing to fill a vacancy in the league .
as to my friend , all his usual energy seemed to have deserted him .
now , you do n't think it likely that a man who could do anything is going to wear his breeches out sitting in the stinking hold of a rat gutted , beetle ridden , mouldy old coffin of a china coaster .
tobacco and my work , but now only tobacco ,
between the two ran the irregular track , so narrow in places that they had to travel in indian file , and so rough that only practised riders could have traversed it at all .
when he was married it was all right , but since he has been a widower we have had no end of trouble with him .
never .
he gave up all pretence at conversation and sat , smoking endless cigarettes , lost in his own thoughts , but he made no remark as to the contents .
it was a circle with a triangle within it .
as he spoke there was a tap at the door , and the boy in buttons entered to announce miss mary sutherland , while the lady herself loomed behind his small black figure like a full sailed merchant man behind a tiny pilot boat .
it was the window , sir i go round at night to see that they are fastened .
the theories which i have expressed there , and which appear to you to be so chimerical are really extremely practical so practical that i depend upon them for my bread and cheese .
when i was a very young man , mr holmes , i loved with such a love as comes only once in a lifetime .
more than once i 've sworn off coming for that reason , and then he would write me such penitent , imploring letters that i just had to .
moonlight was streaming into the room , and it was bright with a vague and shifty radiance .
i should be delighted .
it 's open just as it was found last night .
but we had not a very long time to wait for that .
and you have no idea who l .
you may take it from me that naval warfare becomes impossible within the radius of a bruce partington 's operation .
oh , no , not now .
in age he was rather younger than douglas forty five at the most a tall , straight , broad chested fellow with a clean shaved , prize fighter face , thick , strong , black eyebrows , and a pair of masterful black eyes which might , even without the aid of his very capable hands , clear a way for him through a hostile crowd .
a look of annoyance passed over holmes 's face .
there was one wing , however , which appeared not to be inhabited at all .
two steps to the west meant now that i was to go two paces down the stone flagged passage , and this was the place indicated by the ritual .
i was still balancing the matter in my mind when a hansom cab drove up to briony lodge , and a gentleman sprang out .
again and again he recurred to the fact that if he could be assured that society was freed from professor moriarty he would cheerfully bring his own career to a conclusion .
have you shadowed her ?
it seems that it was .
well , i guess i 'll do my share of shoving with the rest of the boys .
he shrugged his shoulders in ungracious acquiescence , while our visitor in hurried words and with much excitable gesticulation poured forth his story .
tell me why it was that you were so eager that sir henry should return to london .
then he lit his pipe and sat for some time smoking and turning them over .
mcmurdo took out an envelope and held it close to the murky oil lamp .
it immensely adds to the zest of an investigation , my dear mr mac , when one is in conscious sympathy with the historical atmosphere of one 's surroundings .
stop a minute !
the instant that i uttered the words i regretted the rashness of my speech .
and i poured out some water from a caraffe .
he was fully clothed , though there were signs that his dressing had been done in a hurry .
now listen !
a fine room , is it not ?
then i shall run over to camberwell and call upon mrs cecil forrester .
you slur over work of the utmost finesse and delicacy , in order to dwell upon sensational details which may excite , but cannot possibly instruct , the reader .
i should prefer to go quietly down to your garden , and turn the whole matter over in my head .
i begin to think so , mr holmes , but when i thought of all the precaution i had taken to shield this girl for i loved her , mr holmes , and it is the only time that ever i knew what love was it fairly drove me mad to think that she was in the power of the greatest brute and bully in south africa a man whose name is a holy terror from kimberley to johannesburg .
a man entered who could hardly have been less than six feet six inches in height , with the chest and limbs of a hercules .
it was some seconds before she could get out the single word ' yes ' and when it did come it was in a husky unnatural tone .
tut , my dear sir , we live in a utilitarian age .
this , however , is beside the question , mr sherlock holmes , and i quite appreciate how valuable your time is .
but his voice was just a little too coaxing .
the sooner we start the better , as the fellow may put out his light and be off .
so absurdly simple that an explanation is superfluous and yet it may serve to define the limits of observation and of deduction .
i cried .
indeed .
what 's this , watson ?
it happens not unfrequently that i am sent for at strange hours by foreigners who get into difficulties , or by travelers who arrive late and wish my services .
he had a colored scarf round his chin , and i could see little of his face save a pair of keen dark eyes , overhung by bushy white brows , and long gray side whiskers .
is my husband 's political career likely to suffer through this incident ?
night after night i heard him pacing his room , and it was just as he was recovering his confidence that the blow did at last fall .
my participation in some of his adventures was always a privilege which entailed discretion and reticence upon me .
it is precisely for that reason that we are going to stoke moran this day .
my friend here wants to take diggings , and as you were complaining that you could get no one to go halves with you , i thought that i had better bring you together .
what makes you think such a thing ?
i sent the house maid for the police and put the investigation into their hands at once .
therefore simpson becomes eliminated from the case , and our attention centers upon straker and his wife , the only two people who could have chosen curried mutton for supper that night .
throwing aside my cigarette , i closed my hand upon the butt of my revolver and , walking swiftly up to the door , i looked in .
because we bring him news of his lost son .
if your friend was going to his relative , lord mount james , you have then to explain the visit of this rough looking fellow at so late an hour , and the agitation that was caused by his coming .
it is most culpable .
saddle a horse , my lad ,
the signals ?
it was a warning for your own good , seeing that you are , by your own showing , new to the place .
he was wild , wayward , and , to speak the truth , i could not trust him in the handling of large sums of money .
how did you deduce the select ?
he was cunning enough to do that with his knife .
in the meantime , do n't you fret yourself , my dearie , and do n't get your eyes swelled up , else he 'll be walking into me when he sees you .
from an official point of view it 's simply awful .
i have trusted you too long , effie ,
now , mr soames , we will take a walk in the quadrangle , if you please .
listen to this , mr holmes .
you must have started early , and yet you had a good drive in a dog cart , along heavy roads , before you reached the station .
at the vicarage you passed through the orchard and the side hedge , coming out under the window of the lodger tregennis .
what does he want , then ?
, of san francisco , cal .
there was nothing for it , however , but implicit obedience so we bade good bye to our rueful friend , and a couple of hours afterwards we were at the station of coombe tracey and had dispatched the trap upon its return journey .
come now , watson , did n't you think yourself that it was the cry of a hound ?
we have at least an hour before us ,
on the fourth day after the new year i heard my father give a sharp cry of surprise as we sat together at the breakfast table .
far away a chiming clock struck out the quarters of the hours , but otherwise a deathly silence lay upon the old house .
come in !
and holmes had expressly said that i should study the neighbours upon the moor .
he took a neat little leather case out of a drawer , and opening it he exhibited a number of shining instruments .
two attempts of the sort have already been made .
there were four protruding fingers and a horrid red , spongy surface where the thumb should have been .
now some of that litter from the mantelpiece .
now , the question is , what price would you ask for it ?
i can make little of it ,
on your arm ?
then she walked back into the house , the happiest girl in all utah .
there are a thousand details which i should desire to know before i decide upon our course of action .
i will pledge my life that whoever stole my papers could only have come through the door .
he is a russian .
sheep marks there were in profusion , and at one place , some miles down , cows had left their tracks .
at ten o clock i went round and saw that all the fellows had gone to roost , for i believe in strict training and plenty of sleep to keep a team fit .
he threw the paper across to me and i glanced at the place indicated .
as he came slouching across the lawn i heard mr trevor make a sort of hiccoughing noise in his throat , and jumping out of his chair , he ran into the house .
a glance at his wound told me that it had not penetrated the bone .
but i have been seated quietly in my chair , and what clues can i have given you ?
an exulting glance went round the circle , and hands were laid upon their weapons .
this to a stoat which thrust its wicked head and red eyes between the bars of its cage .
far away stretched a line of houses , with a light here and there in the upper windows .
indeed , from the direction of the metropolitan station no one was coming save the single gentleman whose eccentric conduct had drawn my attention .
he is in the midland electrical company , at coventry .
life , ' for example is quite out of its proper place .
stand over there near the bedroom door .
adventure v .
i look at them , and the only thought which comes to me is a feeling of their isolation and of the impunity with which crime may be committed there .
the police seemed to take particular interest in him that morning , and captain marvin he who had claimed the old acquaintance with him at chicago actually addressed him as he waited at the station .
indeed , then , you do me injustice there ,
it did n't say ' horrible ' : that 's not a recognized official term .
in an instant i had slipped the revolver from the drawer into my pocket , and was covering him through the cloth .
will you have some whiskey and water ?
she will not sell .
good lord , sir !
very sorry , mr thaddeus ,
as he spoke he turned over another portion of the carpet , and there , sure enough , was a great crimson spill upon the square white facing of the old fashioned floor .
sherlock holmes waved our strange visitor into a chair .
never had the cloud above them been so dark and hopeless as in the early summer of the year .
it was familiar ground to me , and i needed no guiding as we ascended the bleak stone staircase and made our way down the long corridor with its vista of whitewashed wall and dun coloured doors .
so also are the circumstances connected with the death of young cadogan west .
then lord st .
my publishers gave me a most discouraging account of its sale .
well , half a glass .
i cried , and plunged among the litter of papers upon the sofa .
the greatest and perhaps the wealthiest .
it is in the form of a letter , and runs in this way :
hunter waited until his fellow grooms had returned , when he sent a message to the trainer and told him what had occurred .
yes , i have very little hesitation in saying that could we examine the waste paper baskets of the hotels around charing cross until we found the remains of the mutilated times leader we could lay our hands straight upon the person who sent this singular message .
so far i was clear .
the man 's face set in sullen defiance .
do you think it could not stretch from here to philadelphia or new york ?
i could n't even say if it was man or animal , but i just thought there was something there .
the gun was made to conceal .
simon .
he was very willing to have a holiday , so we shut the business up and started off for the address that was given us in the advertisement .
we come now , however , to a point which is of importance .
he had a pair of bedroom slippers .
not another sound broke the heavy silence of the windless night .
i gave a cry , which brought the boots back .
the inspector was himself dependent , as he explained to us , upon a scribbled account forwarded to him by the milk train in the early hours of the morning .
that is one of the clues of which i spoke .
the interview left sherlock holmes very thoughtful , and several times in the next few days i saw him take his slip of paper from his notebook and look long and earnestly at the curious figures inscribed upon it .
the papers which openshaw carried are obviously of vital importance to the person or persons in the sailing ship .
what do you think of lucy ferrier now ?
witness : he mumbled a few words , but i could only catch some allusion to a rat .
you must find your own ink , pens , and blotting paper , but we provide this table and chair .
what the deuce is the matter with the dog ?
but you do n't think so , gentlemen ?
i am not married , ettie .
but are you sure of this , holmes ?
do n't overwork yourself .
if i tell her she will not believe me .
one day scanlan , who was mcmurdo 's fellow boarder , received a note from mcginty inclosing one from evans pott , which informed him that he was sending over two good men , lawler and andrews , who had instructions to act in the neighbourhood though it was best for the cause that no particulars as to their objects should be given .
too late !
he gnawed his lip , drummed his fingers upon the table , and showed every other symptom of acute impatience .
the exercise consists of half a chapter of thucydides .
yes , sir
there was no other sign of the fellow anywhere , though i ran all over the grounds .
you hope to beat me .
i 've fooled him proper , and yet he is likely to be on his guard .
did you not ?
what would it suggest , watson ?
i was surprised , therefore , when , one morning in june , as i sat reading the british medical journal after breakfast , i heard a ring at the bell , followed by the high , somewhat strident tones of my old companion 's voice .
have you followed me so far ?
i 'll take the armchair in the middle .
drop it !
in the early hours of the morning a beautiful woman and a much muffled man boarded a special train which had been sent by the railroad company , and made a swift , unbroken journey out of the land of danger .
holmes 's face grew tense with anxiety .
what , did you not observe it ?
may i ask , mr white mason , whether you examined the farther side of the moat at once to see if there were any signs of the man having climbed out from the water ?
on the other hand a wild chaos of boulders and debris made all advance impossible .
there i parted from my old pals and determined to settle down to a quiet and respectable life .
if i might ask you to wait here for an instant , i have a question which i should like to put to the maid .
then , having inquired as to the occupants of the hall , you will come back to me and report .
that settles it .
one of these was his present companion , baron von herling , the chief secretary of the legation , whose huge horse power benz car was blocking the country lane as it waited to waft its owner back to london .
but he would never cease talking of it your kindness , sir , and the way in which you brought light into the darkness .
whatever punishment was in store for him , i felt that he might expect no sympathy from me .
do you tell me that in that time the guilty person managed to make footmarks in the corner , open the window , mark the sill with blood , take the wedding ring off the dead man 's finger , and all the rest of it ?
then the tragedy occurred .
i made excellent arrangements , and they are only delayed one day upon their way .
there 's only scanlan and me in the house .
from his manner it struck me that he was in mortal dread of something or somebody , but when i questioned him upon the point he became so offensive that i was compelled to drop the subject .
it only remains to fix a price .
i scribbled a note to my neighbor , rushed upstairs to explain the matter to my wife , and joined holmes upon the door step .
that if the matter is beyond humanity it is certainly beyond me .
i began , but the words had a most magical effect , for the window instantly slammed down , and within a minute the door was unbarred and open .
a dozen convicts , who descended with their pistols in search of him , found him with a match box in his hand seated beside an open powder barrel , which was one of a hundred carried on board , and swearing that he would blow all hands up if he were in any way molested .
i 'm not made for it , same as you or mcginty .
have you formed any opinion ?
the baronet himself told him about the family hound , and so prepared the way for his own death .
i seemed to discern some signs of emotion upon the butler 's white face .
and stole that very singular collection ,
now , mr pycroft , i shall not interrupt you again .
certainly .
knowledge of literature .
what a rosy cheeked young rascal !
now for the sinister cripple who lives upon the second floor of the opium den , and who was certainly the last human being whose eyes rested upon neville st .
either his whole theory is incorrect ,
the initials v .
we need them sometimes in the place i come from .
i gave him a short sketch of my adventures , and had hardly concluded it by the time that we reached our destination .
i have been busy .
where ?
what is this , holmes ?
nothing could be more successful .
we were in india then , in cantonments , at a place we 'll call bhurtee .
mcmurdo nodded .
at one side of this was a squat , brass bound wooden box , the lid of which was hinged upwards , with this curious old fashioned key projecting from the lock .
i may appeal to your patriotism also , for i could not imagine a greater misfortune for the country than that this affair should come out .
that 's so .
but , indeed , if i had my time over again , i should not have troubled you , for since the lady has come to herself , she has given so clear an account of the affair that there is not much left for us to do .
why , we have got him , that 's all ,
sir henry had to assure him that it was not so and pacify him by giving him a considerable part of his old wardrobe , the london outfit having now all arrived .
then maybe you remember something queer about it ?
all this country that i passed over to night is as flat and clean as the palm of your hand , and the man we are following is no fool , as he very clearly showed to night .
by a man 's finger nails , by his coat sleeve , by his boot , by his trouser knees , by the callosities of his forefinger and thumb , by his expression , by his shirt cuffs by each of these things a man 's calling is plainly revealed .
i appreciated that point , and i conjectured that it was dropped by the murderer in his hurried flight .
perhaps i interrupt you .
oh , if you say so , mr jones , it is all right ,
his letters were to be forwarded to gordon square so thither i travelled , and being fortunate enough to find the loving couple at home , i ventured to give them some paternal advice and to point out to them that it would be better in every way that they should make their position a little clearer both to the general public and to lord st .
these are the documents in the extraordinary case of the gloria scott , and this is the message which struck justice of the peace trevor dead with horror when he read it .
i shall see you at horsham , then ?
eight shillings for a bed and eightpence for a glass of sherry pointed to one of the most expensive hotels .
i caught glimpses of velvet chairs , a high white marble mantel piece , and what seemed to be a suit of japanese armor at one side of it .
when it cleared again the place was a shambles .
i was about to say , as he is unknown to the public .
we may take it that the sender of the packet is the man whom we want .
that can n't be all , watson ?
time was , sir , when i was butler to old sir jabez gilchrist , this young gentleman 's father .
well , there was one thing which very soon struck me , and that was that the soldiers used always to lose and the civilians to win .
it 's charcoal ,
hullo !
here are the symbols .
precisely .
when he picked himself up he found he was on hampstead heath so he took a bus home , and there he lies now on his sofa , while i came straight round to tell you what had happened .
for a week he continued to be in a peculiar state of restlessness , peering continually out of the windows , and ceasing to take the short walk which had usually been the prelude to his dinner .
but why ' douglas ' and ' birlstone ' ?
i understand that you are a doctor , sir have you ever heard of this preparation ?
it seemed to me that the pallid features of the butler turned a shade paler still as he listened to his master 's question .
they had never kept to the main road if a parallel side street would serve their turn .
add to that the length of neck and head , and you get a creature not much less than two feet long probably more if there is any tail .
then we understood that they could hear nothing , and that all that had happened was known only to ourselves .
at canterbury , therefore , we alighted , only to find that we should have to wait an hour before we could get a train to newhaven .
the latter yawned and tossed the end of his cigarette into the fire .
he sends me a thousand at a time , and i grieve to say that i have to arrange for a fresh supply every fortnight .
you have known your husband only in england , have you not ?
my friend and i were strolling on the moor when we heard a cry .
knowing how genuine was her regard for him , i listened earnestly to her story when she came to my rooms in the second year of my married life and told me of the sad condition to which my poor friend was reduced .
rushing over it , we found ourselves in the inner room .
well , mr holmes ,
our next station must be the office from which the papers were taken .
in the example which you read to me ,
surely there is a white flutter over yonder .
your discoveries seem to have left the business more obscure that it was before ,
his mistress had ceased to scream and was stretched insensible upon a couch , while with his feet tilted over the side of an arm chair , and his head upon the ground near the corner of the fender , was lying the unfortunate soldier stone dead in a pool of his own blood .
is anything on the back of the card ?
he 's dying , dr watson ,
it was the last time that ever either ettie or her lover set foot in the valley of fear .
come in , sir ,
when i did look up i saw arthur standing in the doorway laughing , with a stick in his hand .
i noticed that after my host had read it he seemed even more distrait and strange than before .
i cried .
you have an extraordinary genius for minutiae ,
is he here ?
you are uneasy , as i understand , because your new lodger remains in his rooms and you cannot see him .
the boards round and the panelling of the walls were of brown , worm eaten oak , so old and discoloured that it may have dated from the original building of the house .
jealousy , of course , at once suggests itself as the motive for the crime .
a quarter of the treasure shall be yours .
and who do you expect will answer this advertisement .
you yacht against them , you hunt with them , you play polo , you match them in every game , your four in hand takes the prize at olympia .
if you have not had any report within the last few days it is because up to today there was nothing of importance to relate .
who wrote to him on the very day of his disappearance .
he was quite dead , and had been for some time , for his limbs were rigid and cold .
you have certainly had your share ,
it might be made a text book for detectives to teach them what to avoid .
no footmarks were to be found on the path .
he 's a brave fellow ,
what does he say about the cravat ?
then there came a time of trouble , a police officer was killed , many were arrested , evidence was wanted , and in order to save his own life and to earn a great reward , my husband betrayed his own wife and his companions .
he was in dreadful earnest and made me swear , with my hands on the testament , that whatever happened i would always be true to him .
it is possible that we may be able to make you some small return by throwing some light upon that which is still dark to you .
surely we could conceal ourselves and see him do it .
he broke in .
take her up !
it makes you feel kind o good .
they always fill me with a certain horror .
we carried the box , therefore , into the same hall where we had buried the body , and there , under certain bricks in the best preserved wall , we made a hollow and put our treasure .
he crossed the room and the light suddenly brightened .
damn the beast , if he had as many lives as a cat , he would owe them all to me !
i have no interest in this matter but that of your master .
the last squire dragged out his existence there , living the horrible life of an aristocratic pauper but his only son , my stepfather , seeing that he must adapt himself to the new conditions , obtained an advance from a relative , which enabled him to take a medical degree and went out to calcutta , where , by his professional skill and his force of character , he established a large practice .
what he sought was evidently not there , for again we saw the flash through another blind , and then through another .
but now
he is still with you ?
he ordered the drawbridge to be pulled up every night because it was the ancient custom of the old house , and he liked to keep the old ways up .
sherlock holmes sniffed sardonically .
then we can hardly get there before midnight .
i can make neither head nor tail of the business .
he muttered .
exactly .
but mr holmes here has come from london to help us , and we shall do all that is possible .
sorry to see that you 've had the british workman in the house .
the young lady blushed and laughed .
once that warrant was made out , nothing on earth would save him .
i exclaimed , and then , suddenly realizing how he had echoed the inmost thought of my soul , i sat up in my chair and stared at him in blank amazement .
we did so , and at the end of a few hundred yards lost the tracks as we emerged from the boggy portion of the moor .
what i ask you now is how do i stand by the english law ?
the possession of a grey garment was a third point which , granting the son 's statement to be correct , was a certainty .
there is just a field between us , but to reach it you have to go along the road and then turn down a lane .
come , sir ,
pa thought i had a decline and took me to half the doctors in ' frisco .
i am still so weak that i have to write , as you see , by dictating .
by his cries he must have run a long way after he knew the animal was on his track .
it 's about poor sir charles 's death .
what do you mean , then ?
i do n't know whether you think that mcfarlane came out of jail in the dead of the night in order to strengthen the evidence against himself ,
why it is that mycroft does not use his powers for detective work .
jones turned our search light upon her , so that we could plainly see the figures upon her deck .
now , when did this occur ?
he spun round with a scream and fell upon his back , his hideous red face turning suddenly to a dreadful mottled pallor .
so you actually were not able to see that that man was a sergeant of marines ?
morris shook his head sadly as he left .
seeing that my client was anxious to leave , i said no more but , calling for my cashier , i ordered him to pay over fifty pound notes .
i waited quite a time , but there was no more of it , so i concluded that it was all a dream .
when you have dropped miss morstan i wish you to go on to no .
did you never ask him what he was going in for ?
he slunk away with a livid face and two venomous eyes which uttered more threats than his tongue could do .
lestrade and gregson .
i know nothing more of him than i have learned from meeting him occasionally in the laboratory .
how many did you make it ?
you do n't know sherlock holmes yet ,
and the white cock ?
had the wanderer remained awake for another half hour a strange sight would have met his eyes .
her light grey eyes wandered continually from one to the other , noting every little want and forestalling it if possible .
i pay a good deal of attention to matters of detail , as you may have observed , and i had examined the hall , and was sure that the wall was clear .
they are still under the chair in the hall .
you have formed one , then ?
the despatch box had stood beside the glass upon my dressing table all night .
well , gentlemen , i weary you with my long story , and i know that my friend mr jones is impatient to get me safely stowed in chokey .
he would n't have it , sir you know how masterful he is .
quite so .
the crew were a set of ruffians , specially picked for the job .
i congratulate you .
he was such a comfortable looking man that it was quite a pleasure to look at him .
it is the morning chronicle of april , .
i picked it up and read :
the blind theory will n't do .
my head whirls ,
i may have remarked before that holmes had , when he liked , a peculiarly ingratiating way with women , and that he very readily established terms of confidence with them .
well , he has confessed , all right .
a very remarkable account ,
cried holmes , curtly .
why should you mind what they call it ?
it was worth an effort to preserve it .
he had recovered his self possession in an instant .
reginald musgrave sat down opposite to me , and lit the cigarette which i had pushed towards him .
i could not doubt that this was the miss stapleton of whom i had been told , since ladies of any sort must be few upon the moor , and i remembered that i had heard someone describe her as being a beauty .
you saw this ?
because we have in this case one singular incident coming close to the heels of another singular incident .
with lolling tongue and blinking eyes , toby stood upon the cask , looking from one to the other of us for some sign of appreciation .
i fear not .
they broke up early and left their leaders to their council .
from amid the branches there jutted out the grey gables and high roof tree of a very old mansion .
if time hangs heavy get foolscap and a pen , and begin your narrative of how we saved the state .
no doubt we shall know all about it in time .
death from some powerful vegetable alkaloid ,
whether they seem to you to be relevant or not .
i do n't know what made me look up , but there was a face looking in at me through the lower pane .
that i knew nothing of mr jonas oldacre .
if so , it would , of course , be against the first hypothesis and in favour of the second .
only now , at the end of nearly ten years , am i allowed to supply those missing links which make up the whole of that remarkable chain .
come back , you young imp for if your father comes home and finds you like that , he 'll let us hear of it .
do not ring , lady hilda .
he was a young school master out of place when he was first taken up by my father , but he was a man of great energy and character , and he soon became quite invaluable in the household .
barrymore considers that he has a grievance ,
why did your guilty couple do all this , watson ?
we shall soon set matters right , i have no doubt .
it was not from want of confidence in me there was the most complete love and confidence between us but it was out of his desire to keep all alarm away from me .
from that moment he had vanished from the world , and his identity had been a frequent subject for comment in the european press .
the word had gone round that i was a freeman , and i was forced to join the local lodge , same as you did last night .
i rushed across the bedroom , flung open the window , and looked out .
would to god that i had given him notice on the very day that he came , ' she said .
as a matter of fact , the drawn curtain disclosed nothing but three or four suits of clothes hanging from a line of pegs .
i must , of course , claim the protection of the embassy for the others .
we 've got it all clear as if we had seen it .
i would rather have toby 's help than that of the whole detective force of london .
in a frenzy lest the secret of the treasure die with him , he runs the gauntlet of the guards , makes his way to the dying man 's window , and is only deterred from entering by the presence of his two sons .
that was the breathless burden of his message .
another incident , however , raised him even higher in their estimation .
you are frightening yourself about nothing .
it was lying wide of the metals upon the left hand of the track as one goes eastward , at a point close to the station , where the line emerges from the tunnel in which it runs .
you see , at the commencement of an investigation it is something to know that your client is in close contact with some one who , for good or evil , has an exceptional nature .
well , it would be absurd to deny that the case is a very abstruse and complicated one , but i can promise you that i will look into the matter and let you know any points which may strike me .
let me see ,
then he has bitten through his amber .
the whole thing occurred in a moment so quickly that i had no time to realize it .
not a soul ,
i will tell you , then .
oh , yes .
for some years he has practically withdrawn from the business , in which he is said to have massed considerable wealth .
lark hall lane .
the house is watched on every side .
and he was well dressed ?
yes , i can .
well , from that time sarah hated me with her whole heart and soul , and she is a woman who can hate , too .
in a fortnight the boy was quite at home with us and was apparently absolutely happy .
williamson ?
at the lyceum theatre the crowds were already thick at the side entrances .
i do n't blame you for not knowing this , for you are young and inexperienced , but if you wish to get on in your new duties you will work with me and not against me .
i was sitting in my den , which is at the back of the top of the house , about three o clock , when i was convinced that i heard some sounds downstairs .
these were all factors which had to be taken into consideration , and yet none of them got quite to the heart of the matter .
mcmurdo examined these attentively .
good bye ,
that is final ,
but how did you get to work again ?
a small boy was waiting upon the platform .
an instant afterwards there appeared a little wizened fellow with a cringing manner and a shambling style of walking .
he had already on his insect hunts learned to penetrate the grimpen mire , and so had found a safe hiding place for the creature .
there was a pause after the stock broker 's clerk had concluded his surprising experience .
give me a hand , watson , and i 'll do the same for you .
at least i have got a grip of the essential facts of the case .
scott .
here is the foresight ,
that 's clear enough , for the stains lie above each other if you lay it over this way .
pretty fair , ' i answered , modestly .
but i must owe something .
of knowing your father .
sir henry baskerville is upstairs expecting you ,
i think so .
logic is rare .
i have no doubt that you would have had a more lively evening ,
they had always looked upon them as a very united couple .
we did at last hear that somewhere far out in the atlantic a shattered stern post of a boat was seen swinging in the trough of a wave , with the letters l .
be quiet , you fool !
stolen .
i 've never breathed a word about it yet to mortal man .
there go two of my threads , watson .
you say them out , and i 'll stand by and come in on the choruses .
meaning british prejudice in all its queer manifestations .
adventure ix .
at the same moment he sprang at me .
there seems no other way , and fortunately we need concern ourselves with the one paper only .
i have just made a discovery of the highest importance , and one which would have been overlooked had i not made a careful examination of the walls .
a fair dowry .
she begged him to remain at home , as she could hear the rain pattering against the window , but in spite of her entreaties he pulled on his large mackintosh and left the house .
well , they did not take much only half a dozen articles of plate off the sideboard .
did you notice this scratch ?
there was a good deal of tidying up to do inside his study and he set himself to do it until his keen , handsome face was flushed with the heat of the burning papers .
i never saw anything like it .
that he desired to conceal his handwriting .
there 's these two women and the children .
i am afraid there are no signs here ,
another one ?
that is why i crawled my way up to it .
a thousand things come back to me which make me certain that you have hit it .
it is not his profession , then ?
now carry out my orders to the letter .
i may tell you that i had got as far as plymouth upon my way to africa , but the news reached me this morning , and i came straight back again to help in the inquiry .
well , then , we are driven back to the theory that it was done by someone from outside .
so i think .
i lent the ostlers a hand in rubbing down their horses , and received in exchange twopence , a glass of half and half , two fills of shag tobacco , and as much information as i could desire about miss adler , to say nothing of half a dozen other people in the neighbourhood in whom i was not in the least interested , but whose biographies i was compelled to listen to .
if there had been nothing else , this incident alone would have suggested a prearranged conspiracy to my mind .
the fire looks very seasonable in this weather .
we 've been in the mountains for two months , and are not over and above in visiting condition .
we sat in silence for a moment .
there is sir charles 's death .
i shall certainly be there .
the girl has sworn that as he spoke she noticed the corner of the little paper packet protruding from his closed hand .
and i 'll work it myself , mr holmes .
yes , i was always quick of speech .
before we start to investigate that , let us try to realize what we do know , so as to make the most of it , and to separate the essential from the accidental .
it was more than an hour after that i heard my mistress scream , and down i ran , to find her , poor lamb , just as she says , and him on the floor , with his blood and brains over the room .
have you the tact ?
our client of the morning had hurried forward to meet us with a face which spoke her joy .
what has she been saying to you ?
so i think .
an instant later came the slam of the door and the turning of the key in the lock .
after all , you have done your best for your country , and i have done my best for mine , and what could be more natural ?
jones and i resumed our cigars and our talk .
can you produce him ?
dr roylott has gone to town , and it is unlikely that he will be back before evening .
i would call your attention very particularly to two points .
so much for the daily chronicle ,
the stock broker 's clerk
how can he see the guiding wands tonight ?
i am not convinced that it ever did leave the despatch box .
i tell you , watson , this time we have got a foeman who is worthy of our steel .
in her impatience she endeavoured to pass this obstacle by pushing her horse into what appeared to be a gap .
we shall be up with her in a very few minutes .
a very different holmes , this active , alert man , from the introspective and pallid dreamer of baker street .
surely jimmy will not break his mother 's heart ' that appears to be irrelevant .
foul mouthed doctor and slandered professor such would be your respective roles !
water pressure
i can only say for certain that mr joseph harrison is a gentleman to whose mercy i should be extremely unwilling to trust .
i 've a word to say to you , councillor , about this man .
if i have ever separated myself from the official force , it is because they have first separated themselves from me .
it is a possibility and we cannot afford to disregard it .
the photograph is now as safe as if it were in the fire .
it was identified at once by the manager of the eagle commercial as belonging to a man named hargrave , who had taken a room there two days before .
i should prefer to have the horse .
i 'm sorry , mr holmes ,
well , i 'm glad to hear you say so ,
though clear of mind and fairly strong of limb , i knew that my own fate was sealed .
two nights later he and his friend captain morstan came to my hut in the dead of the night with a lantern .
meanwhile , since it is too late to prevent this tragedy , i am very anxious that i should use the knowledge which i possess in order to insure that justice be done .
you have no reason for fear , mr sholto ,
in his trunk were found the invaluable bruce partington plans , which he had put up for auction in all the naval centres of europe .
feel my hand !
there 's more work to be got out of one of those little beggars than out of a dozen of the force ,
that will do , i could not ask for anything better .
i think , watson , that in your medical capacity , you might wait upon miss smith and tell her that if she is sufficiently recovered , we shall be happy to escort her to her mother 's home .
toller lets him loose every night , and god help the trespasser whom he lays his fangs upon .
meanwhile , this column .
and now we must be silent and wait .
but why should anyone take it in order to keep it in his house ?
there are in me the makings of a very fine loafer and also of a pretty spry sort of fellow .
what a lucky thing it is that we have had no very heavy rain since yesterday !
by the light of the corridor lamp i saw my sister appear at the opening , her face blanched with terror , her hands groping for help , her whole figure swaying to and fro like that of a drunkard .
that 's lucky for him in fact , it 's lucky for all of you , since you are all on the wrong side of the law in this matter .
there 's going to be a vacancy at pinkerton 's or i 'm mistaken .
his height is readily calculated from the length of his stride , and we know that he was bearded .
that there is an understanding between those two people .
wait till jefferson comes , and we 'll soon manage that .
the young man answered .
we could put him down an old shaft when we 've done with him but however we work it we can n't get past the man living at hobson 's patch and you being there to day .
was there any other spirit but rum in the room ?
i read for about ten minutes , beginning in the heart of a chapter , and then suddenly , in the middle of a sentence , he ordered me to cease and to change my dress .
holmes spent the evening in rummaging among the files of the old daily papers with which one of our lumber rooms was packed .
sir george burnwell tried to get away , but arthur caught him , and there was a struggle between them , your lad tugging at one side of the coronet , and his opponent at the other .
that 's about the size of it ,
possibly , if we could prove a bicycle to have been in his possession .
you are aware that the underground runs clear of tunnels at some points in the west end .
i fancy she knows more about this than appears .
he had signed it in behalf of himself and his associates , the sign of the four , as he somewhat dramatically called it .
what does it mean ?
i glanced at my watch , and the time was nearly nine .
and yet i need not tell you that my mind was far from at ease , and that i was well nigh certain that some foul plot had been woven round him .
i glanced over it ,
i could see a mile of road , but he was not on it .
and you , mr price ?
in the meantime i will do a little quiet work at your own doors , and perhaps the scent is not so cold but that two old hounds like watson and myself may get a sniff of it .
others as well known and as rich as himself had been spirited away before now , and their goods given over to the church .
this dust , you will observe , is not the gritty , grey dust of the street but the fluffy brown dust of the house , showing that it has been hung up indoors most of the time , while the marks of moisture upon the inside are proof positive that the wearer perspired very freely , and could therefore , hardly be in the best of training .
your majesty , as i understand , became entangled with this young person , wrote her some compromising letters , and is now desirous of getting those letters back .
i did it , mr holmes .
you know very well that you ask an impossibility .
a brougham was waiting with a very massive driver wrapped in a dark cloak , who , the instant that i had stepped in , whipped up the horse and rattled off to victoria station .
barker stared at holmes with amazement in his face .
i think that was the chain of events , mr windibank !
this was certainly where the man lived .
gregson flung it open and held his light full blaze in front of him , while we all peered eagerly over his shoulders .
that will do very well .
let us see , now .
some years ago this country house , yoxley old place , was taken by an elderly man , who gave the name of professor coram .
looking down i saw a stately carriage and pair , the brilliant lamps gleaming on the glossy haunches of the noble chestnuts .
i sat up in bed and rapped my knuckles against the rail to make certain that i was truly awake .
i think that you had better return to england , watson .
he was left with good prospects , but he threw away his chances , lived for some time in poverty with occasional short intervals of prosperity , and finally , taking to drink , he died .
the game is afoot .
true for you ,
you will soften him , watson .
not at all .
disappearance of a well known builder .
it seemed to me that the mists in my own mind were gradually clearing away , and i began to have a dim , vague perception of the truth .
he snarled , and hurling the twisted poker into the fireplace he strode out of the room .
i 've got my facts pretty clear ,
the person who has passed for his sister is really his wife .
the story has , i believe , been told more than once in the newspapers , but , like all such narratives , its effect is much less striking when set forth en bloc in a single half column of print than when the facts slowly evolve before your own eyes , and the mystery clears gradually away as each new discovery furnishes a step which leads on to the complete truth .
i think she is one of the most charming young ladies i ever met , and might have been most useful in such work as we have been doing .
i did not mind that , however , as long as i could lay my hand upon the men i wanted .
if i can be of any assistance , either to you or to my friend here , i shall be indeed happy .
holmes leaned back in his chair with half closed eyes .
draw your chair up and hand me my violin , for the only problem we have still to solve is how to while away these bleak autumnal evenings .
i cannot believe my eyes !
as i looked at the deep set windows and the long sweep of the dull coloured , water lapped front , i felt that no more fitting scene could be set for such a tragedy .
bogs make queer noises sometimes .
exactly !
tell it your own way but there are the facts , and you can n't miss the public so long as you have those .
i care not .
the famous doctor strode out of our cottage in considerable ill humour , and within five minutes holmes had followed him .
our new acquaintance very deliberately coiled up the tube of his hookah , and produced from behind a curtain a very long befrogged topcoat with astrakhan collar and cuffs .
we had no feeling of security unless our doors were locked .
it is a london paper , an early edition of the evening standard .
and why , sir ?
is your lodge no .
if it should ever strike you that i am getting a little over confident in my powers , or giving less pains to a case than it deserves , kindly whisper ' norbury ' in my ear , and i shall be infinitely obliged to you .
it was his particular direction that we should always , when he rang , leave his meal upon a chair , outside his door .
at the same time , it is stupidity rather than courage to refuse to recognize danger when it is close upon you .
the man who wrote it could not have taken it otherwise , of course , he might have delivered his own message by word of mouth .
their prey was safe within the trap .
and yet we have surely made some appreciable progress .
that 's what puzzles me , mr holmes ,
well , it only meant that we waited half an hour or so until i saw your lamp go out and knew that the coast was clear .
he rang the bell furiously .
and how do you consider that all this bears upon the general case ?
where did he live , then ?
from the first blush of dawn until the closing of the twilight , the clatter of the hammer and the rasp of the saw was never absent from the monument which the immigrants erected to him who had led them safe through many dangers .
quite so .
the reason is that i am well convinced that it is from his agents the blow will fall .
there was eighty odd pounds in it , but nothing had been taken .
i cannot tell .
then you use me , and yet do not trust me !
now , if you will help me up .
i 'm very glad you have come , mr holmes .
i hope you have no designs upon us such a night as this .
whoever he may have been , and whatever he may have wanted , he 's gone for the present , and we have more immediate things to attend to .
he could climb like a cat , and he soon made his way through the roof , but , as ill luck would have it , bartholomew sholto was still in the room , to his cost .
i must put it plainly , mr holmes .
you must study him , then ,
well , i chose august for the word , and for the figures , and here we are .
the boss recoiled and fell back into his chair .
it is no case of sawed off shotguns and clumsy six shooters .
if i did n't dare things , mister , i would n't be in your service .
certainly .
i knew that it would not suit your plans , sir , to find him here .
it is my nature .
then we carried him into the other room , where he lay with a clay colored face , puffing his purple lips in and out with every breath a dreadful wreck of all that he had been but five minutes before .
they failed for a million , ruined half the county families of cornwall , and neligan disappeared .
that was the view which i took of it , though brother bartholomew could not altogether see it in that light .
you must remember that we are dealing with a burglar who is a very peculiar fellow , and who appears to work on lines of his own .
is mr sherlock holmes here ?
perhaps you can account also for the bullet which has so obviously struck the edge of the window ?
dear me !
i wonder that my very simple stratagem could deceive so old a shikari ,
that was the obvious reason .
once , i remember , as we passed over the gemmi , and walked along the border of the melancholy daubensee , a large rock which had been dislodged from the ridge upon our right clattered down and roared into the lake behind us .
at eight o clock , ' she said , gulping in her throat to keep down her agitation .
your ladyship places me in a very delicate position .
after a time they were able to relax these measures , for nothing was either heard or seen of their opponent , and they hoped that time had cooled his vindictiveness .
an old soldier , i perceive ,
my guide stopped and looked about her like one who is at her wit 's end .
that 's how he died .
it is frequently in its least important and lowliest manifestations that the keenest pleasure is to be derived .
macdonald pointed ruefully to his heap of correspondence .
now that writing was just over six feet from the ground .
you mentioned your name , as if i should recognize it , but i assure you that , beyond the obvious facts that you are a bachelor , a solicitor , a freemason , and an asthmatic , i know nothing whatever about you .
her hands were grasping the arms of her chair , and i saw that the pink nails had turned white with the pressure of her grip .
what is that ?
hardly that , doctor , hardly that ,
look at the magnificent types !
he followed the man , reached the window , saw the abstraction of the documents , and pursued the thief .
then , as i tried to shake her off , she clung to me in a frenzy of entreaty .
our simple life and peaceful , healthy routine were violently interrupted , and we were precipitated into the midst of a series of events which caused the utmost excitement not only in cornwall but throughout the whole west of england .
he had been on intimate terms with the leading politicians of several countries .
such an excursion could not be kept secret .
i took a wide sweep round , and there is no path within fifty yards .
we 'll wait here .
she cried .
it 's a lie !
so determined was the appearance of the captain that both mcmurdo and his boss were forced to accept the situation .
i could endure it all , ill usage , solitude , a life of deception , everything , as long as i could still cling to the hope that i had his love , but now i know that in this also i have been his dupe and his tool .
why should mr homes think that i could help him in his trouble ?
i shall be very happy to look into it .
i will not cause you any unnecessary trouble , lady brackenstall , and my whole desire is to make things easy for you , for i am convinced that you are a much tried woman .
and you intend to ask him ?
holmes shrugged his shoulders .
an instant later steps crept down the passage steps which were meant to be silent , but which reverberated harshly through the empty house .
either you are heart and soul with us on your oath on the cross of the christians , or your body this night shall be thrown into the ditch and we shall pass over to our brothers in the rebel army .
now he looks a little more human .
the butler was standing very pale but very collected before us .
i think ,
and the time of the crime , and what had become of him afterwards .
he would get quite mad if i wanted so much as to join a sunday school treat .
tell me ,
and yet and yet well , we have some suggestive facts to act upon .
he is a middle aged man , much sunburned , and has been a convict .
we shall begin our researches here .
remember the card upon the bird 's leg .
williamson and carruthers found themselves carrying the wounded woodley into the house , and i gave my arm to the frightened girl .
i might land the launch over to some boat builder or repairer , with directions to make a trifling change in her .
it is one now .
away , is he ?
they will see that you are not there .
that 's rather vague ,
i have been making a fool of myself ,
well , what do you make of it ?
look at that with your magnifying glass , mr holmes .
why did you not tell me of this , hopkins ?
prints it ?
and how could you tell that they would make their attempt to night ?
most interesting ,
we waited long for news of the lone star of savannah , but none ever reached us .
your wedding was arranged , then , for the friday .
it is of the highest importance in the art of detection to be able to recognize , out of a number of facts , which are incidental and which vital .
but its general shape must be what i have indicated , and it can run up a curtain , and it is carnivorous .
i guess you 'll pay for this , captain marvin ,
we had sprung to our feet , and for a few moments we stared in silent amazement at this ponderous piece of wreckage , which told of some sudden and fatal storm far out on the ocean of life .
there is only one point on which i should like a little more information ,
each of these mends , done , as you observe , with silver bands , must have cost more than the pipe did originally .
in vain i searched among the groups of travellers and leave takers for the lithe figure of my friend .
of course , in your position of unofficial adviser and helper to everybody who is absolutely puzzled , throughout three continents , you are brought in contact with all that is strange and bizarre .
have you among your neighbours or acquaintances on dartmoor any man with a black , full beard ?
besides the members of the cabinet there are two , or possibly three , departmental officials who know of the letter .
the german was sent for but professed to know nothing of the matter , nor could any inquiry clear it up .
you can hardly realize , then , how difficult i found it at first , and how long i had to wait before i succeeded in making any headway .
just let me alone , and i 'll soon be right .
do you include violin playing in your category of rows ?
the story took a great hold upon the imagination of sir charles , and i have no doubt that it led to his tragic end .
simon , who has shown himself for over twenty years proof against the little god 's arrows , has now definitely announced his approaching marriage with miss hatty doran , the fascinating daughter of a california millionaire .
there were some figures also upon a sheet of paper , with the names of some club friends opposite to them , from which it was conjectured that before his death he was endeavouring to make out his losses or winnings at cards .
no , no , i am sure that i am right .
i dare say my severe illness prevented him from being that .
i have had a note from someone who has .
not only that , but the signature is typewritten .
we 'll call a cab and go together .
mrs lyons !
you will let me know when randall is arrested , and any further developments which may occur .
on the contrary ,
ah , of course ,
from his hat ?
so now we must set ourselves very seriously to finding this gentleman and ascertaining what part he has played in this little mystery .
all was as we had seen it in the daytime .
we must first , of course , test the truth of your story .
out of my last fifty three cases my name has only appeared in four , and the police have had all the credit in forty nine .
he shook his head sadly .
i am certainly developing the wisdom of the serpent , for when mortimer pressed his questions to an inconvenient extent i asked him casually to what type frankland 's skull belonged , and so heard nothing but craniology for the rest of our drive .
every paper which would incriminate him was destroyed before he left the house .
we were your trustees ,
but what was he to witness ?
mycroft holmes and lestrade had come round by appointment after breakfast next day and sherlock holmes had recounted to them our proceedings of the day before .
holmes smiled indulgently .
here is gregson coming down the road with beatitude written upon every feature of his face .
it 's my race , anyhow ,
flora was a dear little thing , but exceedingly hot headed and devotedly attached to me .
i am sure that , with your symptoms , my friend dr watson here would prescribe a sedative .
when i told him every detail he gave it up and thought only of saving his own skin .
the injured man had already deposed that he was so taken by surprise by the suddenness of the attack that he could state nothing beyond the fact that the first man who struck him wore a moustache .
this second man was ordered never to let achmet out of his sight , and he followed him like his shadow .
i should be proud to feel that we were acting together , mr holmes ,
it was that little hell hound tonga who shot one of his cursed darts into him .
this is what we are after , mr barker this bundle , weighted with a dumb bell , which you have just raised from the bottom of the moat .
he was in the midst of that when your return caused him to make a very hurried retreat very hurried , since he had not time to replace the papers which would tell you that he had been there .
why should n't we be married right away , then , ' said he , ' and then i will feel sure of you and i will n't claim to be your husband until i come back ?
these are much deeper waters than i had thought .
well , really , it seems rather useless , since you refuse the most excellent offers in this fashion ,
parker spoke of you , and that brought me here to night .
in this case , looking at the bold , strong hand of the one , and the rather broken backed appearance of the other , which still retains its legibility although the t 's have begun to lose their crossing , we can say that the one was a young man and the other was advanced in years without being positively decrepit .
you might have been there !
and dip my handkerchief into the creasote .
none of the other houses were inhabited , and that at which we stopped was as dark as its neighbors , save for a single glimmer in the kitchen window .
mcmurdo laughed bitterly .
you are doing so well now that it would be a pity for anyone to interfere .
atheney jones has gone .
because you are within my reach again ,
here comes our man , i think .
what would you do , then ?
surely you do n't really imagine that he may be kidnapped in order to give information against his wealthy uncle ?
there is no a priori probability about it .
i am afraid that this is a bad business , watson ,
we have been hearing gregson 's view of the matter ,
precisely .
i could imagine that our visitor was standing by the bedside and looking down at the sufferer .
clair .
i 'll choose my own time , mister .
they arose from the unsettling of the minds of the masses , and the consequent weakening of all authority .
we hurried through the dark shrubbery , amid the dull moaning of the autumn wind and the rustle of the falling leaves .
never !
you 're a man to be proud of ,
let us reconstruct , watson ,
pray accept my apologies .
we pay the price , watson , for being too up to date !
besides the signs of a struggle in the room of the unfortunate builder it is now known that the french windows of his bedroom which is on the ground floor were found to be open , that there were marks as if some bulky object had been dragged across to the wood pile , and , finally , it is asserted that charred remains have been found among the charcoal ashes of the fire .
still seeking knowledge at the old university .
on the table lay two banknotes for ten pounds each and seventeen pounds ten in silver and gold , the money arranged in little piles of varying amount .
there was a long silence , during which holmes leaned his chin upon his hands and stared into the crackling fire .
he was speaking to himself rather than to me but my vexation disappeared in the interest which the words awakened .
it 's only carlo , my mastiff .
opening the door , i started down the corridor to find out .
i do not know whether the spotted handkerchiefs which so many of them wear over their heads might have suggested the strange adjective which she used .
you quite follow me ?
hence one would expect the effects of the poison to be less than in the second case , where there was less escape for the vapour .
that is unusual in a young girl .
honestly , i cannot congratulate you upon it .
no , he cared nothing about politics .
even as we looked he plucked out from under his covering a short , round piece of wood , like a school ruler , and clapped it to his lips .
but i held up a warning finger .
may we bring him in , marm ?
he continued in a low voice as we went upstairs together .
this time it was the young lady coming from the station .
i do n't think that you are nearly excited enough .
why do you say so ?
i am so glad that you have come .
it may have been a little over an hour before i reached meiringen .
holmes had recovered his equanimity , though i still seemed to detect gleams of amusement in his expression .
oh , bless you , it does n't matter in the least .
i say to you , ted baldwin , what is the offense , sir ?
you can hardly expect me to answer that , mr holmes .
mordecai smith
i did not observe .
why is it held back ?
we must take care that he does not now bring us to the place where the creasote barrel came from ,
i knew it by certain precautions he took .
the inspector was about to tell them the importance which we attached to it when , by the luckiest chance in the world , i tumbled down in a sort of fit and so changed the conversation .
the further points , that he is middle aged , that his hair is grizzled , that it has been recently cut , and that he uses lime cream , are all to be gathered from a close examination of the lower part of the lining .
i have just come from his room ,
to murder .
with that he seized my hair in both his hands , and tugged until i yelled with the pain .
well , why should n't she marry whom she liked ?
i was about to say that my friend and i have listened to a good many strange secrets in this room , and that we have had the good fortune to bring peace to many troubled souls .
selden told me of him , sir , a week ago or more .
this is a colleague , watson , after our own heart .
it was rather a queer position that we found ourselves in then .
i hope we may clear him , miss turner ,
is that right ?
he took a bottle of champagne down from the shelf and twisted out the cork .
when the facts come out in frankland v .
holmes whistled .
we have the place to ourselves , but for a sergeant up stairs .
one was mr stapleton , a neighbour and intimate friend of sir charles ' s .
the mere fact that the ring should be absent , whoever may have removed it , would suggest to anyone 's mind , would it not , that the marriage and the tragedy were connected ?
his reverence is our own homemade article .
that the clips are lined with tiny bands of cork to soften the pressure upon the nose .
she had gone off with a man , and the man was either a lover or was a previous husband the chances being in favour of the latter .
he turned over the pages lazily , leaning back in his chair and blowing great clouds from his cigar .
the indications here , however , are neither very marked nor very important .
the public ,
one would have expected that they would silence lady brackenstall as well .
with rows of flaring torches to light it up , and the colour and rude hilarity of an old time banquet , it might have softened but now , when two black clothed gentlemen sat in the little circle of light thrown by a shaded lamp , one 's voice became hushed and one 's spirit subdued .
there is scope ,
if i failed to do so , who would bring my smith within my grasp ?
the science of deduction
what , then , do you suppose ?
that you imagine that i have added opium smoking to cocaine injections , and all the other little weaknesses on which you have favoured me with your medical views .
the time has now come for fraternal refreshment and for harmony .
an instant later i heard him running down , and he burst into my consulting room like a man who is mad with panic .
it depends on what the things were ,
glad to see you in these parts .
let us go back to the bedroom and talk the matter over .
i saw nothing remarkable save the bell rope , and what purpose that could answer i confess is more than i can imagine .
well , i guess because i tell you not .
then it was withdrawn as suddenly as it appeared , and all was dark again save the single lurid spark which marked a chink between the stones .
i was n't destined to do much soldiering , however .
is there any point to which you would wish to draw my attention ?
i should apologize .
it was one of those small sealing wax knives to be found on old fashioned writing tables , with an ivory handle and a stiff blade .
it has all been done before .
when mr ames ran to the front she went with him .
he had nearly fainted when we found that the papers had undoubtedly been tampered with .
in every way it corresponded with the scene of the old tragedy .
why had he no ticket ?
the government was compelled , therefore , to use smaller and less suitable vessels for sending out their prisoners .
holmes shook his head .
birdy edwards is here .
no , sir
they might have been a father with his two sons .
the girl must have waited above .
i was , as watson may have told you , in the foreign office , and through the influences of my uncle , lord holdhurst , i rose rapidly to a responsible position .
he was fond of me no man could be fonder of a friend .
the official , a smart , keen faced young fellow , stepped into the room .
you take me out of my province there ,
i think , watson , you and i will drive together to the russian embassy .
he 'd have kept it if he had wanted us to come .
did mr douglas entirely approve your friendship with his wife ?
i was very much surprised at your letter , for i could not imagine how you knew that i owned such a thing .
they are undoubtedly by the same person .
she made no allusion to it afterwards , and i made none , for a promise is a promise , but she has never known an easy hour from that moment .
he slipped into this room because it was the first he came to , and he hid behind the curtain .
she did not withdraw it .
my twin brother bartholomew and i were the only children .
i was some little way off , so that i could not make out the features , but there was something unnatural and inhuman about the face .
gennaro returned from it with a face which told me that something dreadful had occurred .
so is the microscopic examination for blood corpuscles .
you saw yourself how neither of the inspectors dreamed of questioning his statement , extraordinary as it was .
three yellow squares of light shone above us in the gathering gloom .
what do they call this sound ?
the first two , i need hardly remark , are the same who masqueraded as the russian count and his son , so we can give a very full description of them .
this side of his nature , however , appears never to have been turned towards his wife .
i could swear that these marks were not here yesterday evening .
already round this pale faced , handsome , black bearded man there was gathering an atmosphere of mystery and of gloom .
maybe we just jolted it off between us .
i have no doubt that anxiety and exposure have driven him off his head .
well , watson , i will not offend your intelligence by explaining what is obvious .
i just rejoiced that good luck had come her way , and that she had not thrown herself away on a penniless sailor .
i am cyril overton .
he was next sidney johnson in the office .
to leave you here .
my dear holmes !
he was quivering with silent laughter .
i claim your sympathy , then , in my investigation of mr staunton 's fate .
the box is a half pound box of honeydew tobacco and does not help us in any way .
what in thunder has that to do with you ?
i waited up for her .
it seems that a young lady has arrived in a considerable state of excitement , who insists upon seeing me .
for which he was entered ?
on the other side i saw the red signal lamps of a railway .
i have never known my friend to be in better form , both mental and physical , than in the year ' .
the rest is all dead o thirst and hunger away down in the south .
you must remember that they were six years looking for it .
luck had been against us again and again in this inquiry , but now at last it came to my aid .
my boy , my boy , you are very much too good to be a clerk at mawson 's !
a second very obvious one is that this young man really is the heir of a great property , however modest his means may at present be , and it is not impossible that a plot to hold him for ransom might be concocted .
you will kindly sign that paper , mr sandeford , in the presence of these witnesses .
the plot thickens .
i assure you that you will be helping us helping me greatly if you will guide us on that point .
mistress and maid were both staring at holmes with pale faces and frightened eyes .
the tailor 's tab is on the neck ' neal , outfitter , vermissa , u .
it is only in your client 's interests that i protested .
i could not tell if the face were that of a man or a woman .
your powers , if i may say so without offence , seem superior to your opportunities .
is it you that would dispute it ?
our handful of men were lost among the narrow , winding streets .
he 'll break into no house , sir i give you my solemn word upon that .
i must insist upon some explanation .
anyhow , we shall have you on a charge of conspiracy , if not for attempted murder .
what has it turned to , then ?
we put him to bed but the paralysis has spread , he has shown no sign of returning consciousness , and i think that we shall hardly find him alive .
where is a candle ?
our only clue lay in the truncated telegram , and with a copy of this in his hand holmes set forth to find a second link for his chain .
our guide cried aloud in his astonishment and dismay .
dear me !
no , but you have now ,
his gray clothes and jerky , zigzag , irregular progress made him not unlike some huge moth himself .
there is no better way of approaching it .
and what is the result of your investigations ?
but beyond that i can hardly see what use the disjecta membra of my late acquaintance are going to be to me .
look here !
i see no connection .
unless he fell upon the knife ,
you would find him an interesting study .
there i was struck on the shoulder by a jezail bullet , which shattered the bone and grazed the subclavian artery .
the one is whether any crime has been committed at all the second is , what is the crime and how was it committed ?
yet even without knowing his brilliant record one could not fail to be impressed by a mere glance at the man , the square , massive face , the brooding eyes under the thatched brows , and the granite moulding of the inflexible jaw .
i have never denied him a wish .
can i rely upon you ?
you think , sir , that unless this document is recovered there will be war ?
dr grimesby roylott 's chamber was larger than that of his step daughter , but was as plainly furnished .
one thing led to another , and it ended in his inviting me out to spend a few days at his house , wisteria lodge , between esher and oxshott .
you have not observed anyone follow or watch you ?
there was great applause at this .
i 'll get even with you without needing to dirty my hands ,
there are forces here which may be more dangerous than those he has escaped .
i took the paper from him and read as follows :
well , miss hunter , if your mind is made up , that settles the question ,
what is to me a means of livelihood is to him the merest hobby of a dilettante .
now , marvin , i 'll keep you no more .
you 'll take my advice and still be on your guard .
well , i hope to goodness the house will n't be burgled during the night .
it would cease to be a danger if we could define it ,
that is the cedars , and beside that lamp sits a woman whose anxious ears have already , i have little doubt , caught the clink of our horse 's feet .
the best possible .
there was absolutely nothing in their mutual relations to prepare people for the tragedy which was to follow .
very unlikely .
i do n't wonder that my uncle got a little jumpy if he lived all alone in such a house as this .
no , sir , i think that , with your permission , i will confine my attentions to the excellent bird which i perceive upon the sideboard .
this advertisement will appear in each of them .
the room had been fashioned into a small museum , and the walls were lined by a number of glass topped cases full of that collection of butterflies and moths the formation of which had been the relaxation of this complex and dangerous man .
i thought to myself ,
he stammered .
there is a fierce eddy between the wharf and the house .
but his stables had been searched ?
since rodger baskerville , sir charles 's younger brother died unmarried , the estate would descend to the desmonds , who are distant cousins .
i do n't know not very long .
vast sections of it have been cleared , for this is the seat of the first iron works of the country , and the trees have been felled to smelt the ore .
it had been a great day for the scowrers .
here , too , is my dark lantern .
the young heir glanced round with a gloomy face .
thank god , i think that i hear him coming .
offer to assist them in every way .
there was a drawing of lots as to who should carry out the deed .
i think that i have touched bottom at last , however .
this cloud continued to increase in size until it became evident that it could only be raised by a great multitude of moving creatures .
another covered the lower part of the face , and over it two dark eyes eyes full of grief and shame and a dreadful questioning stared back at us .
sure , councillor , i am little more than a recruit ,
why was that corner chosen to write it on ?
leave no stone unturned !
i was not and am not sure which but i knew that the ship must have an american origin .
how are you , mr reuben hayes ?
mary and i stay at home .
in the third week of november , in the year , a dense yellow fog settled down upon london .
excellent , and i have got the men .
if elsie dies , i care nothing what becomes of me ,
upon the pouch were a coincidence , and not those of peter carey , since he seldom smoked , and no pipe was found in his cabin .
who would have believed it ?
and how was it then that charles did not get his crown when he returned ?
well , it could not be more than five .
sulky , sheepish , and amazed , they still sat round the table .
how could it be that if it had gone twelve miles over heavy roads ?
it is headed , ' singular occurrence at a fashionable wedding ' :
there is one other thing you owe , mr holder ,
that was the breadth of a puddle on the garden walk which he had evidently walked across .
i could not help smiling at the abruptness of the question .
ah , it 's the first thought that came to you !
in the last century , however , four successive heirs were of a dissolute and wasteful disposition , and the family ruin was eventually completed by a gambler in the days of the regency .
we have a new brother here , baldwin , and it 's not for us to greet him in such fashion .
i 'm awful frightened ,
i fear it is too deep a case for such simple remedies ,
he seizes a stick , which he observes there , kills oldacre , and departs after burning the body .
mycroft draws four hundred and fifty pounds a year , remains a subordinate , has no ambitions of any kind , will receive neither honour nor title , but remains the most indispensable man in the country .
to my surprise it was nothing of any importance at all , but simply a copy of the questions and answers in the singular old observance called the musgrave ritual .
you will let me know any fresh development , miss smith .
was it a chance that the wood had slipped , and that the stone had shut brunton into what had become his sepulchre ?
they are shot , both mr hilton cubitt and his wife .
day by day she grew queerer and more irritable , and we had ceaseless rows about nothing .
do i know that photograph ?
i am as ready to be rich as you can be , if you will but show me how it can be done .
i am convinced that the inspector has formed the opinion that the letters are all practical jokes , and that the deaths of my relations were really accidents , as the jury stated , and were not to be connected with the warnings .
you have been very remiss in not coming to me sooner ,
he looked at me in a most singular fashion .
holmes and i had listened spellbound to this extraordinary story .
i do my neighbor 's when he goes .
the second brother , who died young , is the father of this lad henry .
i 've heard that with you german politicians when an agent has done his work you are not sorry to see him put away .
but the glories of the landscape were all wasted upon my companion , who was sunk in the deepest thought .
but , halloa !
the water pipe feels pretty firm .
you must try round and get on a fresh scent , i fancy ,
i may have commented upon my friend 's power of mental detachment , but never have i wondered at it more than upon that spring morning in cornwall when for two hours he discoursed upon celts , arrowheads , and shards , as lightly as if no sinister mystery were waiting for his solution .
nigh upon ten thousand ,
yes , i have got it now ,
then he went downstairs , said a few words to the man who was waiting in the hall , and the two of them went off together .
yes , king edward street , near st .
go where they would about london , i was always at their heels .
we know that you were pressed for money that you took an impress of the keys which your brother held and that you entered into a correspondence with oberstein , who answered your letters through the advertisement columns of the daily telegraph .
give me your details , and from an armchair i will return you an excellent expert opinion .
i will see each of them .
remember , watson that though we have so homely a thing as a goose at one end of this chain , we have at the other a man who will certainly get seven years ' penal servitude unless we can establish his innocence .
i have no doubt that my friend 's explanation will cover the facts .
we must use what time we have ,
why should you go further in it ?
that servant , i found upon inquiry , was so ill that she had gone to her bed .
it is fatal , mr holmes absolutely fatal .
i confess that it left an unpleasant effect upon my mind .
how can you build on such a quicksand ?
faith , it is wiser not to ask .
i should have waited for the morning , but i could not sleep for excitement , and so at last i slipped out , knowing how difficult it is to awake you .
whose , then ?
sherlock holmes had , in a very remarkable degree , the power of detaching his mind at will .
let us hear about it ,
well , i naturally sent a resume of the information to berlin .
she came down and brought money with her , trying to bribe me to go .
it is rumoured as we go to press that mr john hector mcfarlane has actually been arrested on the charge of the murder of mr jonas oldacre .
a touch , watson an undeniable touch !
what should we do , mr holmes ?
for answer the man waved a small brown paper parcel triumphantly above his head .
standing on the rug between us , with his slight , tall figure , his sharp features , thoughtful face , and curling hair prematurely tinged with gray , he seemed to represent that not too common type , a nobleman who is in truth noble .
among other things i bought these brown boots gave six dollars for them and had one stolen before ever i had them on my feet .
how often will he repeat it ?
if ever human features bespoke vice of the most malignant type , they were certainly those of enoch j .
on looking over the bank book i found that the low state of the balance was principally due to large checks which have been made out during the last year to mr cornelius .
pray continue your narrative .
beside him lay a dark mass which looked like a newfoundland dog .
i have seen mr bartholomew sholto in joy and in sorrow for ten long years , but i never saw him with such a face on him as that .
summer colds are always a little trying .
i should prefer that you remain .
where are the jewels which you have stolen ?
can it indeed be that you are alive ?
it was soon evident to me that he was now preparing for an all night sitting .
is there a crime to be done , a paper to be abstracted , we will say , a house to be rifled , a man to be removed the word is passed to the professor , the matter is organized and carried out .
it was clear to me , however , that by pretending that he had really succeeded in his design i might surprise a confession .
i was very angry , for this was the third demand during the month .
there are some other points , no doubt but we can refer to you as they arise .
i 'm strange to the ways of the place .
you consider that to be important ?
the year ' furnished us with a long series of cases of greater or less interest , of which i retain the records .
but the incident is an admirable starting point for an investigation .
desultory readers are seldom remarkable for the exactness of their learning .
pon my word , i am inclined to agree with master alec ,
certainly , mr holmes .
all the demoniacal force of the man masked behind that listless manner burst out in a paroxysm of energy .
a prodigiously stout man with a very smiling face and a great heavy chin which rolled down in fold upon fold over his throat sat at her elbow with a pair of glasses on his nose , looking very earnestly at the ladies who entered .
i can n't say that he ever did .
it is , i think , much more likely that henry baker is an absolutely innocent man , who had no idea that the bird which he was carrying was of considerably more value than if it were made of solid gold .
he was a little , white faced , clean shaven , grizzly haired fellow of fifty .
what 's that ?
i am sure , mr holmes , that we are very much indebted to you for having cleared the matter up .
you would lose your money ,
the tiger of san pedro !
meanwhile , let me see the inside of the cabin .
the papers will be full of the birlstone mystery in a day or two but where 's the mystery if there is a man in london who prophesied the crime before ever it occurred ?
a few yards off he stopped under a lamp post and laughed in the hearty , noiseless fashion which was peculiar to him .
the clue of the matter lies probably here in town .
if minor errors were punished so sternly , what would be the fate of this arch rebel .
i think i made certain of a good deal , mr holmes .
i had as much right to it as peter carey , anyhow , so i took it with me and left the hut .
there was a scandal about his drenching a dog with petroleum and setting it on fire her ladyship 's dog , to make the matter worse and that was only hushed up with difficulty .
when i got back after my visit to you , the very first thing i saw next morning was a fresh crop of dancing men .
oh , such a business !
but there can be no question as to the authorship .
you see , gentlemen , that i am keeping my promise .
no , no , i am never dull ,
was any other bicycle missing ?
perhaps i have .
the back door was open , and as he came to the foot of the stairs he saw two men wrestling together outside .
gregory was formulating his theory , which was almost exactly what holmes had foretold in the train .
stanley hopkins swore between his teeth , and struck his thigh with his clenched hand .
that he may be safely trusted to do , for although he is absolutely devoid of reason , he is as tenacious as a bulldog when he once understands what he has to do , and indeed , it is just this tenacity which has brought him to the top at scotland yard .
accustomed as i was to holmes 's curious faculties , this sudden intrusion into my most intimate thoughts was utterly inexplicable .
a ventilator is made , a cord is hung , and a lady who sleeps in the bed dies .
the evidence of those who had played with him mr murray , sir john hardy , and colonel moran showed that the game was whist , and that there was a fairly equal fall of the cards .
i imagine that you saw all that i did .
our readers will remember that the deceased gentleman was found stabbed in his room , and that some suspicion attached to his valet , but that the case broke down on an alibi .
from long habit the train of thoughts ran so swiftly through my mind , that i arrived at the conclusion without being conscious of intermediate steps .
it is no use our being at all before our time ,
we have both tried , and we have both failed .
the pleasant old lady had appeared in the doorway .
we are undone , my good watson !
and then i think that what he foresaw happened .
no a client .
clubs : the anglo indian , the tankerville , the bagatelle card club .
the case ,
you are developing a certain unexpected vein of pawky humour , watson , against which i must learn to guard myself .
he was sitting alone one evening pondering deeply over his troubles , and searching vainly for some way out of them .
it was one o clock when we left no .
you then roused his anger by calling him names at a moment when he felt that he had deserved your warmest thanks .
well , what have you to say ?
find what i owe , watson .
the professor is writing a learned book , and he found it necessary , about a year ago , to engage a secretary .
then suddenly he slapped his thigh in a paroxysm of amusement .
i have already explained the relationship in which i stood to the tregennis family .
the house is banked in with rolling clouds , which rise now and then to show the dreary curves of the moor , with thin , silver veins upon the sides of the hills , and the distant boulders gleaming where the light strikes upon their wet faces .
the three men entered the fatal room together , while the horror stricken butler followed at their heels , closing the door behind him to shut out the terrible scene from the maid servants .
it is simplicity itself ,
these alarms , and the desperate need for secrecy , argue that the matter is one of life or death .
there is no good feeling between us .
that is why i have chosen my own particular profession , or rather created it , for i am the only one in the world .
yes , sir
december nd .
what is this ?
then , again , the introduction of his name will cause him to see it , for everyone who knows him will direct his attention to it .
one moment ,
what then ?
but my prospects are better ,
miss sarah cushing is extremely ill ,
absolutely !
the very first thing which i observed on arriving there was that a cab had made two ruts with its wheels close to the curb .
beware !
but it is so lonely and eerie in this dim light that i was frightened and ran out again .
now , we must make the best use of our time , so kindly take us at once to the rooms which we are to examine .
really , mr holmes , this exceeds anything which i could have imagined ,
it had been smashed to atoms where it stood .
why had he done this ?
i could not but observe that as she took the seat which sherlock holmes placed for her , her lip trembled , her hand quivered , and she showed every sign of intense inward agitation .
men who die from heart disease , or any sudden natural cause , never by any chance exhibit agitation upon their features .
that evening james bicycled over i am telling you what he has himself confessed to me and he told arthur , whom he met in the wood , that his mother longed to see him , that she was awaiting him on the moor , and that if he would come back into the wood at midnight he would find a man with a horse , who would take him to her .
she screamed out .
seldom have i seen him so utterly despondent .
no , i never have .
you have lost nothing by them .
before he could escape from her , the clatter of horses ' hoofs told him that they were beyond his reach .
it was then that we ascertained that lord saltire had not been alone in his flight .
i rushed upstairs to make sure that she was not in the house .
it 's lander and egan ,
you shall remain here ,
i am much obliged to you for bringing us together .
but why should he come .
he stood with his legs a little separated , his arms folded , his head bowed , as if he were brooding over that enormous wilderness of peat and granite which lay before him .
her mother had not come back yet , and we were shown into the front room to wait .
he rose with a very courteous air , and , bowing to us , he passed out through a door at the farther end of the room , which he closed behind him .
then he turned to the two castaways .
yours faithfully , st .
it told me that drebber had already applied for the protection of the law against an old rival in love , named jefferson hope , and that this same hope was at present in europe .
now , supposing that he broke away during or after the tragedy , where could he have gone to ?
why , bless you , sir , it is in the steam launch that he has gone .
she did n't seem able to get out a word .
there was a double stream upon the stair , some going up in hope , and some coming back dejected but we wedged in as well as we could and soon found ourselves in the office .
there was no light save in the dining room , but holmes caught up the lamp and left no corner of the house unexplored .
surely it would be better to take no notice .
but it seemed to come from miles away , over yonder , i think .
she married an artist named lyons , who came sketching on the moor .
no such luck .
the indian i also thought nothing of .
he tried to bluster out of it , but i described to him so exactly what his actions had been upon that morning that he is convinced that i was watching him .
how did you know what i was doing ?
but why are we here ?
seizing my pistol , i was rushing out , when my wife threw her arms round me and held me with convulsive strength .
it is addressed to mr garcia , wisteria lodge .
once more i beg that you will say nothing of my visit .
how could i settle the point forever ?
i approached and knocked at the door , which was instantly opened by a tall , gaunt woman with a harsh , forbidding face .
do not lose an instant .
was there anything curious about his life in california ?
they must have thought that there was some chance of their being followed , for they would never go out alone , and never after nightfall .
perceiving a light in the front room , he advanced into the passage and again knocked , but without reply .
there can be no question that stapleton had a confidant , though it is unlikely that he ever placed himself in his power by sharing all his plans with him .
i smiled and shook my head .
i shouted but only the same half human cry of the fall was borne back to my ears .
i went into the kitchen , the butler 's pantry , the gun room , the billiard room , the drawing room , and finally the dining room .
it was long , sharp , and black , with a glazed look near the point as though some gummy substance had dried upon it .
oldacre gave an uneasy laugh , shrinking back from the furious red face of the angry detective .
that will give me the chance of telling you how things are shaping .
there was a portrait within of a man strikingly handsome and intelligent looking , but bearing unmistakable signs upon his features of his african descent .
as i listened to the words and realized what they meant , a great shadow seemed to pass from my soul .
my friend seemed struck by this remark .
you know the feeling , mr sherlock holmes , when you come upon the right scent a kind of thrill in your nerves .
i shall be as limp as a rag for a week .
i begged him to tell me what had occurred .
i trust , mr holmes , that you can spare me a few hours of your valuable time .
he is always ready to work off the debt .
that 's he walking ahead of us there .
i told you that i would call .
and it is my duty to warn mr scott eccles that it may be used against him .
they were , as mcmurdo found , quite ready to converse about their deeds in the past , which they recounted with the half bashful pride of men who had done good and unselfish service for the community .
i was fairly dazzled by the brilliance of it .
we had almost forgotten our companion 's presence since we entered the chamber .
he walked past the couch to the open window , and held up the drooping stalk of a moss rose , looking down at the dainty blend of crimson and green .
sure , the very thought would cost me my life .
holmes rushed at the bell pull , tore back a small sliding shutter , and , plunging in his hand , pulled out a photograph and a letter .
suddenly , with a plunge , as of the swimmer who leaves the bank , she hurried across the road , and we heard the sharp clang of the bell .
was it through the chimney ?
i knew very well that the owner would think that they had lost their bearings in the haze , and had drifted off out to sea .
check number one ,
what has this to do with the matter you are investigating ?
the major was raving about his losses .
i laid his offence before him .
wooden legged men are not so common , but the other man must , i should think , be absolutely unique .
from one or two friends there on the occasion of my marriage .
as to your practice , if a gentleman walks into my rooms smelling of iodoform , with a black mark of nitrate of silver upon his right forefinger , and a bulge on the right side of his top hat to show where he has secreted his stethoscope , i must be dull , indeed , if i do not pronounce him to be an active member of the medical profession .
it rained a little last night .
she little knew what .
how is it , then , that the woman who came into the room about nine left no traces with her muddy boots ?
then my servant will call a cab , and i shall be with you in an instant .
a young woman opened the door , who proved to be mrs tangey 's eldest daughter .
holmes had picked up the powerful air gun from the floor , and was examining its mechanism .
i came round to see you on the chance that some other explanation had suggested itself to you .
look at the band of ribbed silk and the excellent lining .
good morning .
through the haze i had a vague vision of holmes in his dressing gown coiled up in an armchair with his black clay pipe between his lips .
it is a thorn .
i would stay to show you over the house , but barrymore will be a better guide than i .
a few extracts from the latter will carry me on to those scenes which are indelibly fixed in every detail upon my memory .
what with the shock and the loss of blood , i fainted , and should have drowned if holder had not caught hold of me and paddled for the bank .
it is the impression of a wooden stump .
it would be quite as deadly , and a good deal less noisy than firing across a handkerchief .
far from going to the inn , mr holmes , i should be pleased if you would come and stay with me at holdernesse hall .
mcmurdo was down on his knees before her in an instant .
if in telling the story i seem to be somewhat vague in certain details , the public will readily understand that there is an excellent reason for my reticence .
steiner is the fifth man you 've lost since i signed on with you , and i know the name of the sixth if i do n't get a move on .
he was dressed like a gentleman , in norfolk jacket and knickerbockers , with a cloth cap upon his head .
fournaye , who is of creole origin , is of an extremely excitable nature , and has suffered in the past from attacks of jealousy which have amounted to frenzy .
you may wait here a moment and there is no reason why your friends should not wait with you .
i guess you are the daughter of john ferrier ,
however , i think that i have got all that i want .
i suppose i shall have to come out and have a look at it .
if i were to shout for help as we pass through the village
as to poor lestrade 's discovery it was simply a blind intended to put the police upon a wrong track , by suggesting socialism and secret societies .
he has never said anything .
the corridor which led to the room was laid down with a kind of creamy linoleum which shows an impression very easily .
i thought he had not the nerve to lie quiet before an alarm of fire .
we had learned of the existence of this steward , an impulsive man , of strong passions you remember that he threw up what must have been a very superior berth in order to be nearer to his wife subject , too , to occasional fits of hard drinking .
i want to start by the .
we have a housekeeper now , but she is old and foolish , and i could easily get her out of the way .
with this trophy over his shoulder , he hastened to retrace his steps , for the evening was already drawing in .
everything which is in the market goes to milverton , and there are hundreds in this great city who turn white at his name .
mrs toller !
i saw no one .
the old man reached out a trembling hand and helped himself to a cigarette .
i am glad to see that you have only been waiting a very few minutes .
holmes had been examining the window .
but the reason is very obvious .
i should like to see where it grew .
here goes , anyhow .
i do n't see that it was remarkable , mr holmes ,
bannister entered , and shrank back in evident surprise and fear at our judicial appearance .
they speedily resolved themselves into three large brown birds , which circled over the heads of the two wanderers , and then settled upon some rocks which overlooked them .
he was just white with rage , and those light eyes of his were blazing with fury .
ten papers were taken from woolwich .
yes , sir , that was the gentleman 's name .
the next the aristocratic mask was replaced , and the gentle voice had returned .
and to take it back to boss mcginty !
mr overton was evidently considerably excited when he sent it , and somewhat incoherent in consequence .
it was too far for me to go , weak and ill as i was .
it seemed three months to me .
our captive sat in the cabin opposite to the iron box which he had done so much and waited so long to gain .
bring him over here , and he will guide the police .
it is the first rule of criminal investigation .
it was vain to urge that his time was already fully occupied , for the young lady had come with the determination to tell her story , and it was evident that nothing short of force could get her out of the room until she had done so .
there might have been some credit to be gained out of it , but for this too palpable clue .
what 's this paper ?
together they have a cumulative force .
i was sitting in my room thinking the matter over , when the door opened and professor moriarty stood before me .
really , i hardly know how to express my gratitude , mr pinner ,
as long as he has liquor and good pay , why should he ask questions ?
know then that in the time of the great rebellion the history of which by the learned lord clarendon i most earnestly commend to your attention this manor of baskerville was held by hugo of that name , nor can it be gainsaid that he was a most wild , profane , and godless man .
the vanishing of the lady .
that 's all right ,
it had been used for the storage of wood , but the billets , which had evidently been littered over the floor , were now piled at the sides , so as to leave a clear space in the middle .
if we have no other way of catching him , we can always bait our line with the ring .
in that case i should have wasted my day .
i know that i shall go mad !
no dost akbar must have his share .
we shot past the long lines of loaded barges as though they were stationary .
we were not more than four boat 's lengths behind them , both boats flying at a tremendous pace .
the whole front was draped in ivy , with a patch clipped bare here and there where a window or a coat of arms broke through the dark veil .
but before doing so i took a stroll in the curious old world garden which flanked the house .
he was struck down doing the work of the lodge , and it is for us to see that she is not the loser .
andaman islands , situated miles to the north of sumatra , in the bay of bengal .
when did you go to bed ?
we can take it out of their local bosses but it only means that others will be sent in their stead .
we shall engage to get aboard her by night , and if you will drop us on any part of the indian coast you will have done your part of the bargain .
i concentrated my attention , therefore , upon him and his household .
mr henry wood , late of india , i believe ,
for five days this cruel imprisonment continued , with hardly enough food to hold body and soul together .
that is good enough for the moment .
mr douglas was an american , or had lived long in america .
she was enveloped in a loose dressing gown of blue and silver , but a black sequin covered dinner dress lay upon the couch beside her .
your majesty will , of course , stay in london for the present ?
there was a glass of water on the table , and on the window sill a small chip ointment box containing a couple of pills .
i do n't think we can even venture to smoke to pass the time .
the country roads seem to be not very good in that part of the world , for we lurched and jolted terribly .
knowing himself to be a traitor , he may have read the accusation in the other 's eyes .
it is in a german speaking country in bohemia , not far from carlsbad .
i cried .
i looked , and there , sure enough , was the bullet mark !
i fastened the rod on end , marked out the direction of the shadow , and measured it .
i 'm too deep in this thing , and i may have to get out of it quick .
it has a very irregular look ,
and i really cannot undertake to go about the country looking for a left handed gentleman with a game leg .
that is mrs toller in the cellar ,
but the bicycle ?
he drew no weapon , but he rushed at me and threw his long arms around me .
it is so hard to reckon time at such a moment .
bite on that , captain crocker , and do n't let your nerves run away with you .
her face fell , however , when she saw that i was a stranger , and she sat down again and asked me the object of my visit .
the only document found in the pocket of the deceased was a letter from you saying that you would be with him on the night of his death .
somebody knows something , that is clear .
now , do consider the data .
it had been snatched down from a rack on the wall .
in the kitchen , i believe .
it is well , ' he answered , handing me back my firelock .
but in avoiding the sensational , i fear that you may have bordered on the trivial .
you 're sure it does n't simplify them ?
what beats me is how they could have done so mad a thing , knowing that the lady could describe them and that we could not fail to recognize the description .
cried mr holder .
dr mortimer and baskerville were still visible about two hundred yards ahead of us in the direction of oxford street .
outside the wind still screamed and the rain splashed and pattered against the windows .
they lodged , i find , at the mexborough private hotel , in craven street , which was actually one of those called upon by my agent in search of evidence .
he had been dressed and was seated in an armchair by the fire .
he jerked his thumb in the direction of the old hat
he continued , as he filled three high glasses .
no cleaner job had ever been carried out in the bloodstained annals of the society .
and now as to the villains who seemed to be immediately implicated in the matter .
my own seal .
holmes looked keenly at him .
in future they can report to you , wiggins , and you to me .
i thought i heard a ring .
they had one child , but the yellow fever broke out badly in the place , and both husband and child died of it .
last night was also wet , you will remember , and it was not difficult having obtained a sample print to pick out his track among others and to follow his movements .
he has beaten us , watson .
but here he is , sir , to answer your questions for himself .
yes , you never thought to see me here again , but it was that night which taught me how i could meet you face to face , and alone .
there 's nothing to be learned by staring at it .
she hastily covered it .
it really is rather like me , is it not ?
i put my pistol to the head of the wagon driver , who was this very man mccarthy .
come with me , and we will see what is to be made of this fellow .
yes , sir , we have several among our workpeople and cleaners .
certainly ,
you have done enough for now , cecil ,
i used to be able to keep two assistants , but now i only keep one and i would have a job to pay him but that he is willing to come for half wages so as to learn the business .
i called this morning , dr huxtable , too late to prevent you from starting for london .
it is not a subject on which i would willingly dwell , and yet i am conscious that a duty devolves upon me to omit no detail .
immense .
certainly , mr holmes .
it 's true you set us on the right track but you 'll own now that it was more by good luck than good guidance .
you amaze me , holmes ,
you will observe that the hour mentioned upon it is the very time at which the poor fellow met his fate .
nothing of much importance , mr holmes .
not here !
it was a wild and desolate place , where the moon glimmered upon a wide expanse of marsh land , with pools of stagnant water and beds of decaying vegetation .
there was no clue at all , however , as to their whereabouts .
then i made inquiries as to this mysterious assistant and found that i had to deal with one of the coolest and most daring criminals in london .
he opened the paper as he spoke and disclosed a heap of reddish brown , snuff like powder .
mr holmes .
so perfect was the organisation of the society , and so systematic its methods , that there is hardly a case upon record where any man succeeded in braving it with impunity , or in which any of its outrages were traced home to the perpetrators .
the cases of dolsky in odessa , and of leturier in montpellier , will occur at once to any toxicologist .
and a queer madness , too .
i have only the evidence of the dancing men ,
it was before i knew that my sin had found me out .
she 's not dead or was n't by last accounts .
i did not pause to argue over this atrocious sentiment .
since harker 's bust was one in three , the chances were exactly as i told you two to one against the pearl being inside it .
but why ?
if she seemed to be senseless , they would not take her life .
but what is the object of this deep deception , mr holmes ?
several times i had observed that milverton looked at his watch , and once he had risen and sat down again , with a gesture of impatience .
lestrade showed us the exact spot at which the body had been found , and , indeed , so moist was the ground , that i could plainly see the traces which had been left by the fall of the stricken man .
all right , cabby ,
holmes seemed struck by the theory thus put forward , and he continued to walk up and down for some time , lost in thought and consuming cigarette after cigarette .
i do n't know what your british point of view may be , but i guess that in new york this lady 's husband will receive a pretty general vote of thanks .
as we made our way to the hospital after leaving the holborn , stamford gave me a few more particulars about the gentleman whom i proposed to take as a fellow lodger .
commissionaire , sir ,
but what fresh evidence could you have got ?
it was an insurance against the worst .
i feel as if i shall need your company and your moral support today .
stop , driver , stop !
you seem to know everything , so i expect that you know that i met her when she was a passenger and i was first officer of the rock of gibraltar .
if you remember , monday was an exceedingly hot day , and mrs st .
someone else ?
but surely this is somewhat irrelevant ?
it has , however , prevented the case from becoming the pretty little intellectual problem which it at one time promised to be .
now , mr sherlock holmes ,
i am right glad to hear it , if it will not react upon the fate of james .
a small chamber about seven feet deep and four feet square lay open to us .
he broke out now into a furious stream of german invective , his face convulsed with passion .
perhaps you will tell me , mr holmes , what in thunder is the meaning of that , and who it is that takes so much interest in my affairs ?
poor sir charles 's head was of a very rare type , half gaelic , half ivernian in its characteristics .
why should we not arrest him at once ?
you are too timid in drawing your inferences .
then the baronet gently opened his door and we set out in pursuit .
i hoped that the contents of his pockets might help me to form a conclusion .
he cried .
it 's beyond me .
in doing so i held it within a few inches of my eyes , and was conscious of a faint smell of the scent known as white jessamine .
i have my eye on a suite in baker street ,
scanlan looked at him long and fixedly .
no , no , not always ,
let us have no more beating about the bush .
if the proofs were in a roll , he could not possibly know what they were .
i confess that i have been as blind as a mole , but it is better to learn wisdom late than never to learn it at all .
one hinge snapped , then the other , and down came the door with a crash .
ah , mr holmes ,
i lay back against the cushions , puffing at my cigar , while holmes , leaning forward , with his long , thin forefinger checking off the points upon the palm of his left hand , gave me a sketch of the events which had led to our journey .
there is little i can tell you , sir he has been working at a case down at rotherhithe , in an alley near the river , and he has brought this illness back with him .
there was a surge forward of some of the miners , and an inarticulate cry of pity and of anger but a couple of the strangers emptied their six shooters over the heads of the crowd , and they broke and scattered , some of them rushing wildly back to their homes in vermissa .
i should not have intruded it upon your attention had you not shown some incredulity the other day .
i left the bird , rushed back to my sister 's , and hurried into the back yard .
in a few days you will have recovered from your fatigues .
it is a lonely corner , and there is no house within a quarter of a mile of the spot .
the more i think of the matter the more convinced i am that the letter has never left this house .
may i inquire who has the honour to be the first ?
of what ?
he has been judged over there .
it is a hobby of mine to have an exact knowledge of london .
it was like some strange caricature of the dapper james wilder whom we had seen the night before .
holmes nodded his head .
certainly , it was most interesting .
now you will have the kindness to place some letters and papers upon this table within my reach .
i hardly spoke at all .
well , it means to pass the dollars out into circulation .
i can see the two of them now as they stood , the white man with his legs far apart , shrieking out curses , and the unhallowed dwarf with his hideous face , and his strong yellow teeth gnashing at us in the light of our lantern .
kindly tell us now all about your connection with mr hosmer angel .
he cried , picking up the paper from the table .
has been in the habit of carrying this stick behind his master .
it walked slowly across the lawn and vanished into the shadow upon the other side .
i have no doubt that he has twenty banking accounts the bulk of his fortune abroad in the deutsche bank or the credit lyonnais as likely as not .
the hound was called off and hurried away to its lair in the grimpen mire , and a mystery was left which puzzled the authorities , alarmed the countryside , and finally brought the case within the scope of our observation .
she cried .
yesterday we all came up , and we settled at bentley 's private hotel .
ah , there we come to the edge of the unexplored .
then let us go arrest him .
innumerable women who staggered along under burdens , and children who toddled beside the waggons or peeped out from under the white coverings .
what link could there be between that creature and my wife ?
did anyone call to see the boy on the day before he disappeared ?
he has large , shrewd , humorous gray eyes which twinkle inquiringly from time to time as he looks round through his spectacles at the people about him .
it had already assembled , and only by complicated signs and countersigns could he pass through the outer guard and inner guard who close tiled it .
i had been so confident of regaining the treaty at once that i had not dared to think of what would be the consequence if i failed to do so .
the last of these , at folkestone court , in may , was remarkable for the cold blooded pistolling of the page , who surprised the masked and solitary burglar .
now , you will remember also that mrs porter , the housekeeper , told us that she herself fainted upon entering the room and had afterwards opened the window .
supposing that a matter were brought confidentially to his knowledge , is it absolutely necessary that he should pass it on to the detectives ?
you will appreciate the difficulty of the situation , watson .
is it not ?
such was the stately presence who looked stonily at us from the centre of dr huxtable 's hearthrug .
then , again , why should he leave the girl in the street and dart away to commit a felony ?
now , sir , let us see the contents of that notebook .
that which was in gold and silver he kept by him in the vaults of his palace , but the most precious stones and the choicest pearls that he had he put in an iron box , and sent it by a trusty servant who , under the guise of a merchant , should take it to the fort at agra , there to lie until the land is at peace .
i will call again in the evening ,
it is the first saturday night for seven and twenty years that i have not had my rubber .
it is perfectly plain that after the ladies parted from this man he followed them at a distance , that he saw the quarrel between husband and wife through the window , that he rushed in , and that the creature which he carried in his box got loose .
that would give me time .
the call must have been very pressing , since he left his girl standing in the fog and made no effort to communicate with her .
this fellow will not go wrong again he is too terribly frightened .
what d'you think the man died of ?
the fellow is a baskerville that is evident .
it was not until we had returned in the afternoon to our cottage that we found a visitor awaiting us , who soon brought our minds back to the matter in hand .
he passed his hand over his forehead like a man who is half dazed , and then fell rather than sat down upon a chair .
had the boy a bicycle ?
no , it was for something in that wooden bureau .
would that suit dr watson ?
you are an enthusiast in your line of thought , i perceive , sir , as i am in mine ,
a middle aged woman , who was , i suppose , his housekeeper .
in a moment , however , our hopes were shattered by our being arrested as the murderers of achmet .
will you associate me in your investigation , or will you prefer that i should act independently ?
well , it was evident from what we have heard that baskerville has been very closely shadowed by someone since he has been in town .
murdered ?
it was evidently taken by a snapshot from a small camera .
well , now , you do not mean to seriously suggest that this german rode off upon a bicycle in the dead of the night , bearing the boy in his arms ?
they had then rushed out into the hall , where ames had turned the windlass which lowered the drawbridge .
it is more than possible it is probable ,
the door at the bottom was closed , but unlocked .
i was amused by her society , and she could see that i was amused .
but pray tell me , before we go farther , who it is that i have the pleasure of assisting .
a rude fellow ,
what can you not understand ?
we know that he did not come through the door , the window , or the chimney .
what could eccles supply ?
what are we here for at all ?
still , in her heart , she must retain bitterness and hatred against those who had killed him and would presumably help so far as she could to have revenge upon them .
the work appears to be light and the pay munificent .
it lay near the door .
leave the dog here , and come up .
she panted .
lestrade was not there , but his head constable did the honours .
if ever he blackmailed an innocent person , then indeed we should have him , but he is as cunning as the evil one .
i was leaning against the wall at the time and looking at the geese which were waddling about round my feet , and suddenly an idea came into my head which showed me how i could beat the best detective that ever lived .
lord st .
and yet this is the lad who has met his death this morning in the professor 's study under circumstances which can point only to murder .
barker has just marked the window himself .
i took the lamp from him , and i examined the machine very thoroughly .
you will ask me why i did not dispose of it ?
to my certain knowledge he has acted on behalf of three of the reigning houses of europe in very vital matters .
he glanced at it , and then , with an ejaculation of disgust , threw it on the floor .
murder !
i am jefferson hope ,
the second man was a long , dried up creature , with lank hair and sallow cheeks .
i hardly expected you would .
so i did .
you have the correct intuition .
when a few weeks later it was reported in the papers that wilcox had been shot at from an ambuscade , it was an open secret that mcmurdo was still at work upon his unfinished job .
the plot thickens ,
then he raised his face once more , and spoke with the cold composure of despair .
we were in the middle of our lunch , when he suddenly sprang to his feet .
his linen or clothes are examined , and brownish stains discovered upon them .
no , he turned me back upon the stairs .
this , the best and only final clue , has run to nothing .
he advanced slowly into the room , turning his head from left to right , and swinging in his right hand the cord which held his golden eyeglasses .
that this fellow should think we had come here as architects , or on some definite business .
then , with a bow , she swept from the room .
my husband came to england with his ill gotten gains and has lived in quiet ever since , knowing well that if the brotherhood knew where he was not a week would pass before justice would be done .
mister von bork , you have a great deal to answer for .
i know the men , the launch , everything and yet i can get no news .
the peasants say it is the hound of the baskervilles calling for its prey .
it depends upon those cigarettes that i smoked ,
you have seen little of it if you can call it anything else .
meanwhile , i should like in your presence , mr overton , to go through these papers which have been left upon the table .
i heard mrs douglas coming down the stair behind me , and i rushed out to prevent her from seeing this dreadful sight .
i gripped him by the arms
thank you !
yes , sir , he wrote an answer .
he could do little during the day , for murillo took every precaution and never went out save with his satellite lucas , or lopez as he was known in the days of his greatness .
i am not a whole souled admirer of womankind , as you are aware , watson , but my experience of life has taught me that there are few wives , having any regard for their husbands , who would let any man 's spoken word stand between them and that husband 's dead body .
full of the one idea , i set myself to find out what had become of the secretary .
it is possible , however , that i may have something better before very many minutes are over , for this is one of my clients , or i am much mistaken .
no record of a door being found open ?
at seven o'clock that evening we were walking , the three of us , down corporation street to the company 's offices .
send back your trap , however , and let them know that you intend to walk home .
but i am inclined to think neither .
does dr watson live here ?
before i permitted anything to be moved , i examined most carefully the ground outside , and also the floor of the room .
not a whisper , not a rustle , rose now from the dark figure over which we stooped .
the marks in the road showed me that the horse had wandered on in a way which would have been impossible had there been anyone in charge of it .
so much for the servants .
i was anxious to hurry my work , for i knew that joseph the mr harrison whom you saw just now was in town , and that he would travel down to woking by the eleven o'clock train , and i wanted if possible to catch it .
your presence here was desirable .
he cried .
two have been cut by a not very sharp knife , and two have had the ends bitten off by a set of excellent teeth .
how long i remained unconscious i cannot tell .
at that point , however , as it happens , there is a broadish ditch , moist at the bottom .
the other , a bull necked youth with coarse bloated features , was standing in front of the window with his hands in his pocket , whistling a popular hymn .
you perceive that our friend , the doctor , is right , and that it readily dissolves .
i should be glad , lestrade , if you could make it convenient to meet us at baker street at six o clock this evening .
except mr sherlock holmes ,
to determine its exact meaning i have been obliged to work out the present prices of the investments with which it is concerned .
mad with hate , however , against the dead man , he enters the room that night , searches his private papers in the hope of discovering some memorandum relating to the treasure , and finally leaves a momento of his visit in the short inscription upon the card .
who knew that you were going to the northumberland hotel ?
i was changed from agra to madras , and from there to blair island in the andamans .
these infernal people seem to think that there are no rights of property , and that they can swarm where they like with their papers and their bottles .
poor toby is not to blame .
the two friends chatted in intimate converse for a few minutes , recalling once again the days of the past , while their prisoner vainly wriggled to undo the bonds that held him .
he was pinned like a beetle on a card .
i bowed .
when on the top of this i am able to show that the blood mark on the windowsill was deliberately placed there by barker , in order to give a false clue to the police , you will admit that the case grows dark against him .
queer , certainly !
i shall have to tell my tale to the police but , between ourselves , if it were not for the convincing evidence of this wound of mine , i should be surprised if they believed my statement , for it is a very extraordinary one , and i have not much in the way of proof with which to back it up and , even if they believe me , the clues which i can give them are so vague that it is a question whether justice will be done .
mark that , watson .
then astonishment and joy took the place of the ferocity which had convulsed his features a ferocity which had sent her shrinking back in horror as from something which had never before intruded into her gentle life .
how are you ?
come in !
he was a master criminal , and he lived last century or thereabouts .
we elders have many heifers , but our children must also be provided .
of course the calculation now was a simple one .
now put yourself in that man 's place .
gregson looked quite crest fallen .
again there was a long silence , and i had begun to fear that it was a false alarm , when a stealthy step was heard upon the other side of the hut , and a moment later a metallic scraping and clinking .
am making successful arrangements .
it surprised me .
she had a decided genius that way : witness the way in which she preserved that agra plan from all the other papers of her father .
how could my hair have been locked in the drawer ?
i knew that the opening of safes was a particular hobby with him , and i understood the joy which it gave him to be confronted with this green and gold monster , the dragon which held in its maw the reputations of many fair ladies .
where do you think that i have been ?
the sound from a shotgun is to some extent muffled when the discharge is at very close range , as it undoubtedly was in this instance .
you seem to me to have acted all through this matter like a very brave and sensible girl , miss hunter .
but with no very good result ,
macdonald referred to his notebook .
he had come to offer apologies for his rudeness of the morning , and after a long private interview with sir henry in his study the upshot of their conversation was that the breach is quite healed , and that we are to dine at merripit house next friday as a sign of it .
i was so firmly bound that i could not move , and a handkerchief round my mouth prevented me from uttering a sound .
holmes looked grave .
when the drinks which followed the ceremony of initiation had all been disposed of , the business of the lodge proceeded .
when i arrived there , i walked right into the arms of a police officer who was coming out , and only managed to disarm his suspicions by pretending to be hopelessly drunk .
if you do not you must leave the room .
permit me to give you a sample .
that 's your affair , and i guess you can settle it in court to morrow .
the bar was still crowded with revellers , and many of the brethren remained there .
he pushed open the door and that , i presume , is the dressing room in which he sat smoking when the alarm was given .
i clasped his hand in silence , and the die was cast .
was it , indeed , a coincidence that lucas should meet his death on the night when the letter disappeared ?
as a minor point it may be noted ,
it may , of course , be trivial individual eccentricity or it may be very much deeper than appears on the surface .
she was but thirty at the time of her death , and yet her hair had already begun to whiten , even as mine has .
it is not an easy problem , but he solved it in an original fashion , and so effectively that her presence was not even known to the landlady who supplies her with food .
it is a pity , because in other respects you would really have done very nicely .
then there was the peculiar dying reference to a rat .
from this point onward i will follow the course of events by transcribing my own letters to mr sherlock holmes which lie before me on the table .
as to what occurred there , we cannot do better than quote the old hunter 's own account , as duly recorded in dr watson 's journal , to which we are already under such obligations .
you 're precious near your end , my friend , but i do n't want you to go till i have had a word with you .
the name is familiar to me ,
you must not take it amiss , but it is the orders of the county delegate that we obey .
we do seem to make a little progress , do we not ?
you will observe , watson , the alternative use of the long s and the short .
suddenly , as she spoke , i saw her white face grow whiter yet in the moonlight , and her hand tightened upon my shoulder .
see for yourself .
for a moment gilchrist , with upraised hand , tried to control his writhing features .
well , that 's likely enough .
dr mortimer looked at holmes with an air of professional interest , and sir henry baskerville turned a pair of puzzled dark eyes upon me .
it 's all very appropriate to mrs warren 's lodger .
i watched them late and early , but never saw the ghost of a chance but i was not discouraged , for something told me that the hour had almost come .
we must just keep you in sight until we have the warrant and can hold you .
sherlock holmes had been leaning back in his chair with his eyes closed and his head sunk in a cushion , but he half opened his lids now and glanced across at his visitor .
do you not find ,
let it be your task also to teach him our holy creed .
it is the german who is so uncourteous to his verbs .
it 's mr sherlock holmes , the theorist .
i told her frankly that i wished to see who it was who played such absurd tricks upon us .
had not i thought her to be at bottom a noble woman .
how came these two men if there were two men into an empty house ?
three i will keep ,
you see it ?
why should i consider him in any way ?
as far as i know he is a decent fellow enough .
with your permission ,
we were engaged to each other , frank and i but then one day father struck a rich pocket and made a pile , while poor frank here had a claim that petered out and came to nothing .
i am the last and highest court of appeal in detection .
several letters were waiting for holmes at baker street .
but i do n't get other people into trouble .
shortly after peter carey gave up the sea , and it was long years before i could find where he was .
i know where half a million worth lies , and , as i cannot use it myself , i thought perhaps the best thing that i could do would be to hand it over to the proper authorities , and then perhaps they would get my sentence shortened for me .
i had an interview with the baronet in his study after breakfast , and i told him all that i had seen .
i felt that i should have no peace until i knew , and yet i shrank from asking her again after once she had told me what was false .
brag and bounce !
in the fields and in the streets rose the same hum of human industry .
she goes over to the writing table .
by daybreak we should be half way through the mountains .
that was in yesterday 's paper , and there is nothing in to day 's .
gentlemen ,
good luck !
his love for the lady was deep and sincere , and to him the saddest part of all this black business was that he should have been deceived by her .
cormac placed his hands on the stove for an instant it had been lighted , for the nights were still cold .
the defeat of the light blues may be entirely attributed to the unfortunate absence of the crack international , godfrey staunton , whose want was felt at every instant of the game .
six thousand a year .
she little guessed the struggle within my breast , or the effort of self restraint which held me back .
but how ?
a small garden sprinkled over with a scattered eruption of sickly plants separated each of these houses from the street , and was traversed by a narrow pathway , yellowish in colour , and consisting apparently of a mixture of clay and of gravel .
besides , in peaceful cornwall , visitors did not arrive after ten o'clock at night .
he made no advances to us , however , nor would we have dreamed of doing so to him , as it was well known that it was his love of seclusion which caused him to spend the greater part of the intervals between his journeys in a small bungalow buried in the lonely wood of beauchamp arriance .
holmes unlocked his strong box and held up the blue carbuncle , which shone out like a star , with a cold , brilliant , many pointed radiance .
ample .
it will want the best brains in the force to get to the bottom of this thing .
which ?
is there any point which is not quite clear to you ?
there 's my pistol ,
hullo !
no time like the present ,
hall pycroft shook his clinched hands in the air .
but , sure , you would n't know what that is , acushla , nor what it may mean to the likes of me .
and yet there were indications there , had they not been overlaid by other details which concealed their true import .
i was boiling the kettle when i fell asleep , sir ' he looked at me and then up at the still quivering bell with an ever growing astonishment upon his face .
but he will never trouble anyone in this country again .
they had pulled him out and shot him again and again .
the vendetta might conceivably date back to the man 's first marriage , and the ring be taken for some such reason .
at last i determined to see them before i died .
this went on day after day , mr holmes , and on saturday the manager came in and planked down four golden sovereigns for my week 's work .
i have brought something better than news ,
no , i wrote upon the day before .
what 's this ?
charming rural place .
we understand that when the prisoner is brought before the magistrates a remand will be applied for by the police , and that great developments are hoped from his capture .
there was holmes 's alpine stock still leaning against the rock by which i had left him .
also , that he was to be left entirely to himself and never , upon any excuse , to be disturbed .
he has to be out of the house before seven .
you will excuse these precautions , but i am a man of somewhat retiring , and i might even say refined , tastes , and there is nothing more unaesthetic than a policeman .
not that you are entirely wrong in this instance .
what was his horror one evening to meet in the streets the very man who had initiated him in naples , the giant gorgiano , a man who had earned the name of ' death ' in the south of italy , for he was red to the elbow in murder !
he was very fearful of going out alone , and he always employed two prize fighters to act as porters at pondicherry lodge .
would you be asking me to break my oath ?
it was obvious at a glance that the story of the fuller 's earth was the merest fabrication , for it would be absurd to suppose that so powerful an engine could be designed for so inadequate a purpose .
besides , it is not i alone .
what can this be ?
they seem to have covered their tracks .
the moor is very sparsely inhabited , and those who live near each other are thrown very much together .
as to his dress , it was careful to the verge of foppishness , with high collar , black frock coat , white waistcoat , yellow gloves , patent leather shoes , and light coloured gaiters .
i suppose there would be no chance of a train back .
now , mr lestrade , i will ask you all to accompany me to the top landing .
like a fool i left my baccy pouch upon the table .
his chin , too , had the prominence and squareness which mark the man of determination .
but in any case it was a blow to him and it would take him some time before he could prepare himself to meet it .
for a few minutes he gazed through my field glass .
i fear that you have felt the draught .
you found out that his niece would inherit his fortune .
our fair client seemed a little confused .
it was a relief to him , however , to think that they were all in safety and that , but for that one old woman who had lingered in the kitchen , he had the whole place to himself .
lestrade went in and brought out a yellow cardboard box , with a piece of brown paper and some string .
instantly he gave an exclamation of satisfaction , strapped up the valise , shut the safe , locked it , and hurried out on to the terrace .
was he the only applicant ?
and time , too !
you may be in time to save her yet though it be for the gallows .
what then ?
you have doubtless heard of the beryl coronet ?
human nature is a strange mixture , watson .
there is a small sitting room and bedroom , and all complete , at the top of the house .
it is with this man that we are concerned .
i have given a margin of half an hour ,
i think that we should begin by seeing forbes .
which means , i suppose , that you are not quite clear about your case ?
of these the latter may have afforded a finer field for an acute and original observer , but the other was so strange in its inception and so dramatic in its details that it may be the more worthy of being placed upon record , even if it gave my friend fewer openings for those deductive methods of reasoning by which he achieved such remarkable results .
it was broken into fragments .
therein lies our salvation .
he unrolled one section and held it over his knee .
the evidence against him was so strong that the case has been referred to the assizes .
there can be no doubt that it is a blood mark .
for god 's sake , go back !
i will see to that .
there was a pond in the park , and to this my friend led the way .
all will come well .
it was not done by a german .
i telegraphed to liverpool , giving a description of the man , and warning them to keep a watch upon the american boats .
sir charles was a widower , and a man who may be said to have been in some ways of an eccentric habit of mind .
cried the inspector .
it brings me twopence a sheet , and i can often do from fifteen to twenty sheets in a day .
is there anything else that puzzles you ?
major sholto was to go to india to test our story .
his hand closed like a vice upon my wrist in his agitation .
he is unmarried .
no , but i fancy that i may have deduced a little more .
you have degraded what should have been a course of lectures into a series of tales .
while ferrier was absent , preparing his daughter for the approaching journey , jefferson hope packed all the eatables that he could find into a small parcel , and filled a stoneware jar with water , for he knew by experience that the mountain wells were few and far between .
these few inquiries proved , however , to be a more lengthy proceeding than holmes had imagined , for he did not return to the inn until nearly nine o clock .
then i will tell you .
we now come to that portion of his life which has proved to be of such intense interest to us .
still , there are other gangs of three besides the randalls , or it may be some new gang of which the police have never heard .
but i 've got to the end of my tether , and i must have advice .
sherlock holmes sat up with a whistle .
i can see that you have not slept for a night or two ,
you cannot effect an arrest until to morrow night at the earliest .
the high object of our mission , the consciousness that it was unselfish and chivalrous , the villainous character of our opponent , all added to the sporting interest of the adventure .
be one of them , and you will know all that there is to know .
it was between eight and nine o'clock now , and i was conscious of a strong reaction after the successive excitements of the night .
it is a sort of ceremony peculiar to our family , which each musgrave for centuries past has gone through on his coming of age a thing of private interest , and perhaps of some little importance to the archaeologist , like our own blazonings and charges , but of no practical use whatever .
to the road .
obviously the midnight visitor was some one whom the dog knew well .
i have had a most singular and unpleasant experience , mr holmes ,
there is laura lyons her initials are l .
by jove !
the top steps swilled down and the other ones dry .
some cold beef and a glass of beer ,
i am sure that you cannot fail to be delighted with the traces of heredity shown in the p 's and in the tails of the g 's .
she sits in her own little office , and the ladies who are seeking employment wait in an anteroom , and are then shown in one by one , when she consults her ledgers and sees whether she has anything which would suit them .
you fidget me beyond endurance .
the other , dark , clear cut , and elegant , hardly yet of middle age , and endowed with every beauty of body and of mind , was the right honourable trelawney hope , secretary for european affairs , and the most rising statesman in the country .
he read the relentless threat .
you there , if you please , soames !
let him go .
but while you wait , you might tell me what you can .
where they came from , or who they are , nobody has an idea .
do n't know the name , sir was answering an advertisement about typewriting and came to the wrong number very pleasant , genteel young woman , sir
but , mind you this , that if i had knocked his brains out , as it was in my heart to do , he would have had no more than his due from my hands .
it was the merest chance my taking these pills , for i am bound to say that i do not attach any importance to them .
this quarrel had put a stop to all communications for some months , so that if browner had occasion to address a packet to miss sarah , he would undoubtedly have done so to her old address .
a terrible sob shook his great frame , and he clutched his throat under his brindled beard .
there can be no doubt that the probability the strong probability is that the writer was on board of a ship .
he took down a heavy brown volume from his shelves .
it was one of my friend 's most obvious weaknesses that he was impatient with less alert intelligences than his own .
mr barker had then hurried off to get the police .
i followed them up and found they led to the hall window , where boots had worn all the snow away while waiting .
if he answers that we 've got him !
you can n't tell what may happen .
see the advantages of a cabman as a confidant .
toby could eat these scraps , i dare say .
when it was concluded he settled our new acquaintance upon the sofa , placed a pillow beneath his head , and laid a glass of brandy and water within his reach .
i could not see that in either case holmes had come upon the clue for which he was searching .
it 's a long walk to the school , and the sooner we get started the better .
well , sarah found that she could not make a living in liverpool , so she went back , as i understand , to live with her sister in croydon , and things jogged on much the same as ever at home .
but it is the tobacco which i find most irksome .
there is no exit that way ?
cried the colonel , laughing ,
she would at least have peace for the moment .
some letters get more worn than others , and some wear only on one side .
she had only just arrived in london .
he became haggard and restless , and his eyes had the troubled look of some hunted creature .
in answer to inspector martin , they were clear that every door was fastened upon the inside , and that no one could have escaped from the house .
the reader may set me down as a hopeless busybody , when i confess how much this man stimulated my curiosity , and how often i endeavoured to break through the reticence which he showed on all that concerned himself .
with the bound of a tiger holmes was on his back , and an instant later lestrade and i had him by either wrist , and the handcuffs had been fastened .
he opened the door and ushered in a lady and gentleman .
he believes that willoughby smith had not an enemy in the world , and can give no reason for the crime .
but , hark , what is that ?
someone cut out this message with a scissors
you 'd be as warm , maybe , if you were as pestered as i am .
i consider it the greatest privilege to have been permitted to study your methods of working .
the importance lies in the fact that the knot is left intact , and that this knot is of a peculiar character .
he had long , quivering fingers as agile and restless as the antennae of an insect .
it was blinding to look upon them .
what interest could he have in persecuting the baskerville family ?
then when he left so suddenly for europe i made sure that it was so .
none of them knew the man but there is eternal drama in a killing , and they had shown the scowrers of gilmerton that the vermissa men were to be relied upon .
you are perfectly right to be wary and discreet .
he would eagerly look out for the evening papers in the hope of seeing it among the articles found .
whom do you suspect ?
we have passed the pawnees , and there are no other tribes until we cross the great mountains .
you must make a clean breast of it , for if you do i hope that i may be of use to you .
no doubt you will find some sights to amuse you in this venerable city , and i hope to bring back a more favourable report to you before evening .
well , if you could n't you could n't .
there was a strange , loud whiz and a long , silvery tinkle of broken glass .
now , moran undoubtedly played foul of that i have long been aware .
we lunch at swindon , and i see that we shall be there in twenty minutes .
three days later , however , the nurse and child only just escaped from the back door as you rushed in at the front one .
i give you my word , sir , that it is not my secret , and that i cannot tell it .
and the flight was a swift one , since it took five miles before an expert cyclist could overtake them .
light a cigar and let me expound .
now , look here , mr holmes , it 's half past eleven now and i am going back right away to my hotel .
instead of that , he had intended , before his plans were nipped , to send me the clue in this envelope .
i was still pondering over the matter , when , looking up , i saw my servant , lal chowdar , in the doorway .
there were no signs of violence .
i rather think , inspector martin , that we have now exhausted all that this room can teach us .
he thought , too , that if we parted with the chaplet it might give rise to gossip and finally bring us into trouble .
now , this appears to act as well whether the blood is old or new .
i saw him look curiously at my companion .
and off he went , this trusty tout , without even giving me time to thank him .
return ticket from mackleton , in the north of england ,
on the face of it you must admit , however , that it is very strange that his two servants should have been in a conspiracy against him and should have attacked him on the one night when he had a guest .
he wore shoes , but no socks , and his open coat disclosed a nightshirt beneath it .
i would do it again .
his footmarks had pressed right through the snow , so long had he stood there .
i think myself that he may have broken his neck with the fall .
nor would it be entirely incompatible with most of the words overheard .
we had been sauntering slowly down regent street during this conversation , and dr mortimer , with his companion , had long vanished in front of us .
but there was no stain .
this man pinto helped me to shove the queer
it was a quarter past ten when i moved to go .
i was to bring a certain sum a week to the owner , and whatever was over that i might keep for myself .
toby lives at no .
inspector martin rose and touched his prisoner on the shoulder .
i 'll do so ,
but for choice not on bicycles in lonely country roads .
good by and , above all , do not fret until you know that you really have a cause for it .
what , are you coming , watson ?
my dear holmes !
we had hardly got under the shelter of the hedge when the carriage rattled past .
oh , you know the stories that the peasants tell about a phantom hound , and so on .
at the moment when holmes struck the light i heard a low , clear whistle , but the sudden glare flashing into my weary eyes made it impossible for me to tell what it was at which my friend lashed so savagely .
i would only observe that there is a certain method in the gentleman 's eccentric proceedings .
the lady had taken a quick step forward and had held out her hand to him , but he still refused to raise his eyes .
as i watched him i was irresistibly reminded of a pure blooded well trained foxhound as it dashes backwards and forwards through the covert , whining in its eagerness , until it comes across the lost scent .
i have no doubt , however , that we shall be able to obtain the characteristic reaction .
watson you here !
the shotgun is a strange weapon to use inside a house but he had intended to use it outside , and there it has very obvious advantages , as it would be impossible to miss with it , and the sound of shots is so common in an english sporting neighbourhood that no particular notice would be taken .
she was forced into marrying that same drebber , and broke her heart over it .
how do i come to be mixed up with the case ?
by george !
i confess that i was considerably startled by this fresh proof of the practical nature of my companion 's theories .
finally , i ask you to look at the inner plate , which contains the key hole .
ah , i expected it .
would you mind getting that orchid for me among the mare ' s tails yonder ?
three wine glasses , that is all .
mr stapleton , a mutual friend who was much concerned at his state of health , was of the same opinion .
holmes stood for a moment in deep thought .
i think that i shall have a whisky and soda and a cigar after all this cross questioning .
on the other hand , he has endeavoured to conceal some of these stains upon the felt by daubing them with ink , which is a sign that he has not entirely lost his self respect .
as i took it up a small square of paper upon which it had lain fluttered down on to the ground .
it was imprudent , all the same ,
you can imagine that things are moving at present in carlton terrace and that we have all to be at our posts .
let me say , mr chairman ,
there was unappeasable hatred in their eyes .
i had obtained good results in such cases by the inhalation of nitrite of amyl , and the present seemed an admirable opportunity of testing its virtues .
there is no other claimant , i presume ?
these walls are thick , and it is conceivable that his shriek , if he had time to utter one , was unheard .
his mother and sister were out spending the evening with a relation .
on tuesday evening i received telegrams from both colonel ross , the owner of the horse , and from inspector gregory , who is looking after the case , inviting my cooperation .
he spoke in a jesting tone , but there was no jest in his eyes as he looked at me .
he tossed over , as he spoke , a crumpled sheet of foreign notepaper .
such a charge is absurd to anyone who really knows him .
of reproach ?
i am not clear how you came to hear the news so early this morning .
i can vouch for the accuracy of the subjoined account , for i have had access to lestrade 's note book , in which the prisoner 's words were taken down exactly as they were uttered .
well , well , it can n't be helped .
no good news ?
holmes clambered up , and , taking the dog from me , he dropped it over upon the other side .
more than once he fidgeted with his feet and tapped rapidly with his fingers upon the wall .
if he had not been her brother i should have known better how to answer him .
we have heard , too , of the attack upon the landlord , which was undoubtedly meant for the lodger .
the blunt end had been trimmed and rounded off with a knife .
why , there 's no good my telling you things , for you seem to know as much as i do already ,
yes , the lodge keeper brought it up .
holmes stuck his feet up on the corner of the mantelpiece and , leaning back with his hands in his pockets , began talking , rather to himself , as it seemed , than to us .
he will get at our secrets maybe has got them already .
had they always a fire in this small room on a spring evening ?
oh , if you could see him killing cockroaches with a slipper !
i do not understand how you know these things ,
but whichever it may be , or if it is some third combination , it is down at birlstone that we must seek the solution .
this matter cuts very deep , and though i have not finally made up my mind whether it is a benevolent or a malevolent agency which is in touch with us , i am conscious always of power and design .
that you have not come to cross examine me again ?
i knew it by certain words he let fall .
do not imagine ,
on reaching the manor house , the sergeant had found the drawbridge down , the windows lighted up , and the whole household in a state of wild confusion and alarm .
he 's my man , and i 'll get him sure if i have to wait a year for him .
pray continue your most interesting statement .
for this reason i will now lay before the reader the facts connected with miss violet smith , the solitary cyclist of charlington , and the curious sequel of our investigation , which culminated in unexpected tragedy .
neither dog nor cat nor monkey nor any creature that we are familiar with .
probably it was something in the nature of a judicial proceeding .
what weapon would he choose ?
there was the dead dog , however , to prove that his conjecture had been correct .
was it not possible that his nimble and speculative mind had built up this wild theory upon faulty premises ?
the answer was conclusive .
i 've heard of your methods before now , mr holmes ,
an admirable and unique weapon ,
sufficient for me to share the sport and lend my humble help to the capture without distracting that intent brain with needless interruption .
we had all risen to our feet , our prisoner breathing hard , with a stalwart constable on each side of him .
how he came there , or how he met his fate , are questions which are still involved in mystery .
since the tragedy , mr holmes , there have come to my ears several incidents which are hard to reconcile with the settled order of nature .
he swaggered up a path as if as if the place belonged to him , and we heard his loud , confident peal at the bell .
seven years my senior .
robbery does not appear to have been the motive of the crime , for there had been no attempt to remove the valuable contents of the room .
i have told you that she had only recently recovered from an illness , and was looking so wretchedly pale and wan that i remonstrated with her for being at work .
my eyes tell me that on the inside of your left shoe , just where the firelight strikes it , the leather is scored by six almost parallel cuts .
no , i must go .
he chewed downing 's thumb nearly off before they could master him .
twice henderson has lashed at folk with his dog whip , and only his long purse and heavy compensation have kept him out of the courts .
it struck me that if i could see what occurred in the month of august , , on board the sea unicorn , i might settle the mystery of my father 's fate .
the bottle was downstairs in my laboratory , so leaving my patient seated in his chair , i ran down to get it .
this is too much .
he leaned back , put his finger tips together , and assumed his most impassive and judicial expression .
of the fate of carruthers , i have no record , but i am sure that his assault was not viewed very gravely by the court , since woodley had the reputation of being a most dangerous ruffian , and i think that a few , months were sufficient to satisfy the demands of justice .
the first thing that put us out was that advertisement .
now , suppose that a train halted under such a window , would there be any difficulty in laying a body upon the roof ?
when gregson or lestrade or athelney jones are out of their depths which , by the way , is their normal state the matter is laid before me .
i may have to go down to horsham , after all .
what possible connection could she have with an american assassin which would cause her to shelter him ?
parliament had risen .
mr douglas 's dumb bells ,
it is here .
see here !
now , since we do the taking of him , why should we not do the rest as well ?
yet the scene in the dining room of the abbey grange was sufficiently strange to arrest his attention and to recall his waning interest .
we shall soon see how he managed it .
my mind is gone .
i believe he is in his bed .
have i not given to the common fund ?
the names of the occupants were painted at the bottom on the wall , but there was no such name as the franco midland hardware company , limited .
a frayed top hat and a faded brown overcoat with a wrinkled velvet collar lay upon a chair beside him .
perhaps you cannot yourself recall how your reverie commenced ?
forgive this weakness , mr holmes , i have been a little overwrought .
we are police , madam .
i know you , right enough .
i heard a click of steel and a bellow like an enraged bull .
his death was seven weeks later , upon the night of may nd .
and why ?
on the other hand , the face and manner of my patron had made an unpleasant impression upon me , and i could not think that his explanation of the fuller 's earth was sufficient to explain the necessity for my coming at midnight , and his extreme anxiety lest i should tell anyone of my errand .
the whole country was up like a swarm of bees .
very murderous indeed .
three years had certainly not smoothed the asperities of his temper or his impatience with a less active intelligence than his own .
this is an assignation .
bankers ' safes had been forced before now , and why should not mine be ?
the secretary rang the bell .
the second case , however , was more serious , and also more singular .
there is no reason , therefore , to think that money troubles have been weighing upon his mind .
our client , however , stared in amazement .
if you should find yourself in doubt or in danger
nothing more that you can remember ?
the double line a little above the wrist , where the typewritist presses against the table , was beautifully defined .
from the accounts which have reached us he is an excellent fellow in every way .
it seemed to be of an unnatural color , and to have a strange rigidity about the features .
the lamps had been lit , but the blinds had not been drawn , so that i could see holmes as he lay upon the couch .
mcfarlane turned to us with a gesture of despair , and sank into his chair once more like one who is crushed .
cried the colonel .
two days later that is , on wednesday last there is a curt announcement that the wedding had taken place , and that the honeymoon would be passed at lord backwater 's place , near petersfield .
she bore upon her aquiline and emaciated face the traces of some recent tragedy .
dear me !
her story got about , and several of the people here did something to enable her to earn an honest living .
the man turned white to the roots of his hair .
that book made me positively ill .
but do i see a handkerchief ?
ah , yes a simple matter .
those never passed the philadelphia mint ,
sherlock holmes closed his eyes and placed his elbows upon the arms of his chair , with his finger tips together .
on what charge ?
i was tortured and tried to get away , and was captured and tortured again .
we hardly exchanged a word during breakfast , and immediately afterwards i went out for a walk , that i might think the matter out in the fresh morning air .
had to be certain of your friends before i let them in .
some woman came talking something or other about lord st .
so we stood hand in hand , like two children , and there was peace in our hearts for all the dark things that surrounded us .
besides england is not ready .
a document of immense value has been stolen from the foreign office .
thank you .
that we go up at once and see for ourselves .
with a sudden crash the door flew open , and three frowning , intent faces glared in at them from under the peaks of police caps .
no , sir
he locked the door and hurried past me without a word or a look .
you have really done very well indeed .
but i must speak or i shall be too late .
besides the chairman and baldwin there were the vulture faced secretary , harraway , tiger cormac , the brutal young assassin , carter , the treasurer , and the brothers willaby , fearless and desperate men who would stick at nothing .
yes , young daulat ras , an indian student , who lives on the same stair , came in to ask me some particulars about the examination .
george and owen were singing snatches of songs and gibbering like two great apes .
the more i looked at his fat , frightened face , the harder did it seem that we should slay him in cold blood .
he returned carrying his jumping shoes , which are provided , as you are aware , with several sharp spikes .
as i ran down the passage , my sister 's door was unlocked , and revolved slowly upon its hinges .
he was less surprised than i had expected .
the chamber in which we were shown was on the same floor as the drawing room .
i cried .
you are , fortunately , the only man in london who does .
these sat smoking in a group and conversed in low voices , glancing occasionally at two men on the opposite side of the car , whose uniforms and badges showed them to be policemen .
that it matters to us who buys them , since they can n't carry them out of the district .
we have had work enough already through you .
he went in , leaving word that i should wait for him .
in the meantime , take no step without letting me know .
that hurts my pride , watson ,
and the alternative ?
shrugged his shoulders , and led the way into his own chamber , which was a plainly furnished and commonplace room .
it was in ' that it happened august of that year .
on the other hand , this morse hudson is the purveyor of busts in that part of london , and these three were the only ones which had been in his shop for years .
as i was hurried from the carriage it swung open , and i found myself inside the house , with a vague impression of a lawn and trees on each side of me as i entered .
he knocked a hole , therefore , in the lath and plaster ceiling of the highest room , and there , sure enough , he came upon another little garret above it , which had been sealed up and was known to no one .
it is very kind of you .
i 'm last from chicago .
during two years i have had three consultations and one small job , and that is absolutely all that my profession has brought me .
there was a thin , crisp , continuous patter from somewhere in the heart of that crawling bank .
it does seem a most preposterous way of settling a dispute .
ettie herself was too deeply in love to give him up altogether , and yet her own good sense warned her of what would come from a marriage with a man who was regarded as a criminal .
and , by jove !
there was an old chest of drawers in the room , the two upper ones empty and open , the lower one locked .
the appeal was one which could not be ignored .
nor did i when i joined it at philadelphia .
every day , from nine in the morning until four in the afternoon , i waited in my little den , until at last my heart began to sink , and i came to believe that i should never have any practice at all .
no , no , you shall come with me .
we rattled through an endless labyrinth of gas lit streets until we emerged into farrington street .
here we are , and they are waiting for us .
but i must be prompt over this matter .
and then we asked sarah up for a week , and the week grew into a month , and one thing led to another , until she was just one of ourselves .
we have two hours before we need think of starting .
my word !
i had already begun to suspect joseph , from the fact that you had intended to travel home with him that night , and that therefore it was a likely enough thing that he should call for you , knowing the foreign office well , upon his way .
we will nab him as he climbs out ,
what was it here ?
the cursed greed which has been my besetting sin through life has withheld from her the treasure , half at least of which should have been hers .
the thought had hardly flashed through my mind before he was at the door , pushing his way past her but she threw her arms round him and tried to hold him back .
i crept down the passage as noiselessly as i could and peeped round the corner of the door .
perhaps she did not vish to frighten you avay .
in that case , miss stoper , i had best inspect a few more of your young ladies .
i confess that i made little progress .
her eyes glazed she tottered i thought that she would faint .
now we are ready ,
we imagined what might have happened , acted upon the supposition , and find ourselves justified .
you are confident that the thief came in a cab ?
just toss it over to me .
that may or may not be .
there was still a glowing pile of wood ashes there , but it had evidently not been tended since his departure .
a man of deep character , a man with an alert mind , grim , ascetic , self contained , formidable so i read dr leslie armstrong .
well , he wrote so furiously that he broke his pencil , and had , as you observe , to sharpen it again .
he had been stabbed to the heart and must have died instantly .
my defence ?
here , you ,
it is true that the description of this man tallies with your idea of the second party in this mystery .
simon to me seemed to me from the little i heard as if he had a little secret of his own before marriage also but i managed to get away from her and soon overtook frank .
sparking plugs are naval signals .
what have you to say now ?
she writhed as one who is in terrible pain , and her limbs were dreadfully convulsed .
it was i who killed the young man .
simple as the case seems now , there may be something deeper underlying it .
you will excuse me , musgrave , if i say that your butler appears to me to have been a very clever man , and to have had a clearer insight than ten generations of his masters .
look at the hillside yonder .
our visitor threw up his hands .
the results shows that the trap was skillfully baited .
but tell me , baynes , who is this man henderson ?
the idea , however , that he might have an appointment at so strange an hour never occurred to me until a faint sound reached my ears from the veranda outside .
he gasped .
we will suppose , then , that something was burned in each case which produced an atmosphere causing strange toxic effects .
on this his lips are sealed .
the fellow had evidently made inquiry and found that only two lives intervened between him and a valuable estate .
suicide is out of the question .
the coast seems to be clear , save for that lad in the smithy .
holmes had sat down again after one of these excursions , when he suddenly sprang out of his chair with a loud exclamation .
my dear fellow , what does it matter to me .
he was more attentive when susan , who waited upon us at lunch , volunteered the information that she believed mr smith had been out for a walk yesterday morning , and that he had only returned half an hour before the tragedy occurred .
he tried to steal in , but was baffled by your wakefulness .
if it had not been for miss harrison here and for the doctor 's care i should not be speaking to you now .
i suppose , doctor , you have not recovered the bullet which wounded the lady ?
i 've been making a few independent inquiries , you see .
it was not the convict .
he loved to lie in the very centre of five millions of people , with his filaments stretching out and running through them , responsive to every little rumor or suspicion of unsolved crime .
a gang of burglars acting in the country might be expected to vary the scene of their operations , and not to crack two cribs in the same district within a few days .
he has left two nail marks from his boot upon your linoleum just where the light strikes it .
my feelings towards him were very far from being friendly after what i had heard of his treatment of his daughter , but i was anxious to send perkins and the wagonette home , and the opportunity was a good one .
i am loath to go , for it is quite on the cards that some message may come during the day , though wiggins was despondent about it last night .
sherlock holmes shrugged his shoulders .
just two months ago .
to my surprise , it was a woman who answered the summons , a large , coarse faced , elderly woman , in an apron .
you knew that this man horner , the plumber , had been concerned in some such matter before , and that suspicion would rest the more readily upon him .
it was nearly four o'clock when we at last , after passing through the beautiful stroud valley , and over the broad gleaming severn , found ourselves at the pretty little country town of ross .
you make too much of a trifle ,
with a nod he vanished into the bedroom , whence he emerged in five minutes tweed suited and respectable , as of old .
i see that you have only just moved in , so i thought that if i could be of any help to you in any '
hence the extreme importance of porlock .
he handed over a sheet torn from a note book .
it was on the last occasion that i took the liberty of running over his papers with the most unexpected results .
how he took it i cannot say , for i never left the room , but there is no doubt that it was then , while i was opening cabinets and stooping to boxes , that he managed to abstract some of the devil 's foot root .
the two mccarthys were seen after the time when william crowder , the game keeper , lost sight of them .
you can hardly be open to a charge of sensationalism , for out of these cases which you have been so kind as to interest yourself in , a fair proportion do not treat of crime , in its legal sense , at all .
would there be any objection , mr white mason , to our going down to the house at once ?
i do n't pretend to know much about these things , and i 'd be a better judge of a horse or a steer than of a picture .
what do you make of this string , lestrade ?
anything which you or the inspector may suggest will most certainly be done .
ay , it 's just that , mr holmes ,
but my friend 's eyes were fixed upon the secretary , who stood by his master 's chair .
try the dish before you .
very good , mate .
thrown there by stapleton in his flight .
you shall leave it in the hands of the police !
if i find chance signal message remember code agreed one a , two b , and so on .
i believe in hard work and not in sitting by the fire spinning fine theories .
what is it , madam ?
i have reason to think that they are hot upon our trail .
the man is a public danger .
what was vital was overlaid and hidden by what was irrelevant .
he determines to swindle his creditors , and for this purpose he pays large checks to a certain mr cornelius , who is , i imagine , himself under another name .
mcmurdo showed mild surprise .
mcmurdo and another remained below .
tut , tut , we have solved some worse problems at least we have plenty of material , if we can only use it .
i took two steps forward and looked back .
all that is ours .
i play the game for the game 's own sake ,
a solitary cyclist was coming towards us .
stapleton turned a ghastly face upon us , but by a supreme effort he had overcome his amazement and his disappointment .
by the way , lestrade , who made this remarkable discovery ?
he turned the key in the lock .
was it a fierce tiger of crime , which could only be taken fighting hard with flashing fang and claw , or would it prove to be some skulking jackal , dangerous only to the weak and unguarded ?
i have come here with no object except to help him .
six horses were yoked to it , whereas the others were furnished with two , or , at most , four a piece .
come on !
the servants had retired hours ago , but mrs forrester had been so interested by the strange message which miss morstan had received that she had sat up in the hope of her return .
and i have an accommodating neighbor .
in the morning you will send for a hansom , desiring your man to take neither the first nor the second which may present itself .
his revolver was never out of his pocket .
within are the very words which were upon my father 's last message : ' k .
i did not know you quite so well in those days .
a well played violin is a treat for the gods a badly played one
again , park lane is a frequented thoroughfare there is a cab stand within a hundred yards of the house .
there is a double league which makes a fair balance of military power .
you can at least tell me whether my own thought is correct , and if she died from some sudden fright .
look there !
if , as i imagine , there is no breach of the law in this matter , you can absolutely depend upon my discretion and my cooperation in keeping the facts out of the papers .
the first officer , mr jack crocker , had been made a captain and was to take charge of their new ship , the bass rock , sailing in two days ' time from southampton .
but i did think that i had put the game in their hands .
i grudged to lose the money .
holmes pointed down the long tract of road which wound , a reddish yellow band , between the brown of the heath and the budding green of the woods .
the tiger of san pedro
he cried .
it was resolved now that such an example should be made of them as would prevent any other victim from rebelling .
mr sherlock holmes , i only hope that if ever again i have an important case , i shall have the good fortune to have you by my side .
you will excuse me , miss ,
at the same instant with the other hand he crumpled up the paper that lay before him .
but we must be thankful for what we 've got .
and yet the man who studied him more closely might discern a certain firmness of jaw and grim tightness about the lips which would warn him that there were depths beyond , and that this pleasant , brown haired young irishman might conceivably leave his mark for good or evil upon any society to which he was introduced .
mrs porter had gone to bed , so i let myself out .
but how ?
holmes handed me his brother 's telegram .
hush , on your life !
well , i 'll borrow that if i may .
precisely .
what could have happened , then , to bring one of the foremost citizens of london to this most pitiable pass ?
mcfarlane 's guilt definitely established .
the house was an old fashioned , wide spread , oak beamed brick building , with a fine lime lined avenue leading up to it .
after all ,
one day out in a country lane i met theresa wright , her old maid .
what , indeed ?
i have n't let the grass grow under my feet .
inspector !
my plans were already formed .
that it was not merely for the purpose of examining my skull that you have done me the honour to call here last night and again today ?
sherlock holmes sat for some time in silence , with his head sunk forward and his eyes bent upon the red glow of the fire .
i 'm a believer in the genius loci .
when you have finished , relock both the original and the draft in the desk , and hand them over to me personally to morrow morning .
he cried .
as long as all these questions were unsolved , i felt that sleep would be no easy matter , either for holmes or myself .
and yet there are singular points about it which hold out some hopes for our client .
that 's the whole of my story , gentlemen .
i had imagined that sherlock holmes would at once have hurried into the house and plunged into a study of the mystery .
i know that her word is inviolate .
it 's abduction , watson abduction !
the lady , against whom naturally the strongest suspicion rested , was removed to her room , still in a state of insensibility .
he had nerves of steel , this man for though the whole weight of the affair was on him his manner was as cool and unconcerned as ever .
the pinkerton man had tried to push past him , but gregson had firmly elbowed him back .
so i am .
the object of the mulatto cook 's return ?
what can i tell you about him ?
it is very good of lord st .
together they had descended the stairs .
for half an hour or so i discussed that old gentleman 's symptoms with him , and then , having prescribed for him , i saw him go off upon the arm of his son .
you can come in now .
it is a scantily furnished room .
sherlock holmes took the lamp and led the way , for thaddeus sholto 's teeth were chattering in his head .
and so , gentlemen , you can do what you please but i 've told you the truth and the whole truth , so help me god !
not so much bodily exertion , you understand , as the strain upon the mind .
a little french , a little german , music , and drawing '
it was a pleasant walk of four miles along the edge of the moor , leading me at last to a small gray hamlet , in which two larger buildings , which proved to be the inn and the house of dr mortimer , stood high above the rest .
i suppose that i must have rushed past him into my room .
i brought down this suit of clothes , and in a quarter of an hour barker and i had put my dressing gown on him and he lay as you found him .
his wife is a very tall and strong woman with a sour face , as silent as mrs rucastle and much less amiable .
all my instincts are one way , and all the facts are the other , and i much fear that british juries have not yet attained that pitch of intelligence when they will give the preference to my theories over lestrade 's facts .
i was glad , then , to find that he was my neighbor , and gladder still when , in the dead of the night , i heard a whisper close to my ear , and found that he had managed to cut an opening in the board which separated us .
when had he a letter before that ?
all right , then , i 'll stay .
did you get your other boot ?
now he sat forward in this arm chair and spread out the documents upon his knees .
that is why i have put him off with half promises .
i suppose , watson ,
what did selden say ?
you bet he 'll tumble to it .
i do n't know , sir i noticed her pass , but i had no special reason for watching her .
excuse me ,
the affair seems absurdly trifling , and yet i dare call nothing trivial when i reflect that some of my most classic cases have had the least promising commencement .
excellent !
if the latter , may it be taken as some sign of self reproach for duty neglected ?
my wife seemed to be as upset as myself , and i could see from the little questioning glances which she kept shooting at me that she understood that i disbelieved her statement , and that she was at her wits ' end what to do .
on the contrary , ' i answered , ' i think it is fairly evident that i do .
the other is a good three pound heavier , and we fattened it expressly for you .
before i left i bethought me that if i ever met my sikh friends again it would be a satisfaction to know that i had left some mark of our hatred : so i scrawled down the sign of the four of us , as it had been on the chart , and i pinned it on his bosom .
besides , i knew that my assistant was a good man , and that he would see to anything that turned up .
i have the clearest claim upon half of their present estate , and if they could have found a single paper which , fortunately , was in the strong box of my solicitors they would undoubtedly have crippled our case .
she groaned and sank her face in her hands .
i engaged with old smith , and was to give him a big sum if he got us safe to our ship .
so far we are justified ,
what is to be done ?
his silence appears to me to cut both ways .
we are dealing with a clever man , watson .
in the mean time , mr jefferson hope , have you anything that you wish to say ?
bring me the books , bill ,
i fancy it 's some local practitioner ,
then i tried to get at him in many ways but he was pretty sly , and had always two prize fighters , besides his sons and his khitmutgar , on guard over him .
they were as hardened to human murder as a butcher to sheep .
sure , i was thinking of other things , and when you came tripping so lightly on those fairy feet of yours
oh , you think so ?
i do not know what to believe .
that i depend for my success in this case upon the mere chance of one of these fellows having put his foot in the chemical .
you would have thought the middle of that prairie a fairly safe place for a man to be private ,
mrs allen , the housekeeper , came and took her away .
very truly yours ,
he quickened his pace until we had decreased the distance which divided us by about half .
i had no more idea of the truth than you .
i am not out of it yet .
and yet i cannot see anything save very vague indications .
on the extreme verge of the horizon lie a long chain of mountain peaks , with their rugged summits flecked with snow .
it was so wrinkled and shrunken and withered that it was difficult to say what it might have been .
then you are yourself inclining to the supernatural explanation .
as to what it is we well , that 's what we are watching for !
this fellow merryweather is a bank director , and personally interested in the matter .
cried the inspector .
but you , watson
this year our good host , windigate by name , instituted a goose club , by which , on consideration of some few pence every week , we were each to receive a bird at christmas .
precisely ,
when we entered his room he was propped up with pillows and breathing heavily .
just except a little drop for the likes of you and and
this brought his hand within a few inches of the broken end of the rope , but it was not this so much as the bracket itself which seemed to engage his attention .
his death at the moment of a quarrel , and the gash in his head , would be black against me .
lord leverstoke , the earl of blackwater , sir cathcart soames they all have intrusted their sons to me .
the girl is not told of the arrival of her brother , and finds it out by the merest accident .
he had travelled a good deal in his time .
how long was it before you went to bed ?
dear me , how very unkind of you !
how many half crowns ?
seeing the hook , however they naturally saved themselves the trouble .
he gave me the letter .
mrs hudson has risen to the occasion ,
you 've given the governor such a turn , ' said he , ' that he 'll never be sure again of what you know and what you do n't know .
oh , yes , with the deepest interest .
adventure x .
on june rd , that is , on monday last , mccarthy left his house at hatherley about three in the afternoon and walked down to the boscombe pool , which is a small lake formed by the spreading out of the stream which runs down the boscombe valley .
even in dry seasons it is a danger to cross it , but after these autumn rains it is an awful place .
mrs bernstone gives him far from a good character .
with your usual happy mixture of cunning and audacity , you have got him .
to morrow is your last day , and unless you act to night you are lost .
i fear ,
one would imagine that under such circumstances the first act of young cadogan west would be to seize the villain and raise the alarm .
let me describe exactly the scene as we saw it upon that misty march morning .
what could be brighter than that ?
i had come up from the ship and found my wife out , but sarah at home .
his brain is as cunning as his fingers , and though we meet signs of him at every turn , we never know where to find the man himself .
it 's good enough to act upon ?
well , i was never in luck 's way long .
there are many sheep dogs on the moor ?
and into her sitting room , which was the very room which i suspected .
i never doubted that it would be with me still .
who talks of murdering a mad dog ?
on these occasions i have noticed such a dreamy , vacant expression in his eyes , that i might have suspected him of being addicted to the use of some narcotic , had not the temperance and cleanliness of his whole life forbidden such a notion .
the crime was ascribed to nihilism , and the murderers were never arrested .
the duke , his father , was at one time secretary for foreign affairs .
now our prisoner sat up , looked round him with a horror stricken face , and passed his hand over his forehead , like one who cannot believe his own senses .
we compress the earth into bricks , so as to remove them without revealing what they are .
he looked over his books , and came on it at once .
blessington has committed suicide !
i believe that i am one of the most long suffering of mortals but i 'll admit that i was annoyed at the sardonic interruption .
well , well ,
he was not used to being answered in such fashion , and it amused him .
well , you and your pals have just come in time for me to be able to introduce you to mrs woodley .
surely there is not a moment to be lost ,
that was this morning .
the greatest possible .
the wretched man collapsed .
you see the slight smudge of blood upon the white plaster .
you perceive that the resulting mixture has the appearance of pure water .
but i will tell you everything in order .
i shall glance into the case for you ,
his ticket , of course , would show that .
my wife had always been a woman of a frank , open nature , and it gave me a chill to see her slinking into her own room , and crying out and wincing when her own husband spoke to her .
and afterwards came the hint of romance , the feeling that strange things had happened to him in that great city , so strange and so intimate that they might not be spoken of .
but they are armed , said i .
yes , i remember how he pulled it up in order to swing open the window .
in self defence i stabbed him to the heart .
what do you mean ?
the carpet prevents any possibility of a trap door , and the ceiling is of the ordinary whitewashed kind .
and yet for all his watchfulness he was never depressed .
a hurried word or two passed between them , and then barker rose and came towards me .
he laughed at my expression of dismay and laid it upon the table .
i saw no one near my father when i returned , and i have no idea how he came by his injuries .
indeed !
thence he could look down upon the home of the saints .
why , we should have the whole county laughing at us .
how far to wallington ?
you know that i would not have a secret from you if it were not for your own sake .
what seems strange to you is only so because you do not follow my train of thought or observe the small facts upon which large inferences may depend .
at the night named he had his boat at the wharf .
things were not going very well with him .
holmes leaned forward and laid his long , thin fingers upon the woman 's shoulder .
but i 'm always ready to back my opinion on a matter of fowls , and i have a fiver on it that the bird i ate is country bred .
inquiries are now being made at the offices , but i fear that the complete register of the stockholders of these south american concerns is in south america , and that some weeks must elapse before we can trace the shares .
yes , i saw it by the side lights when i was stepping into the carriage .
our visitor stammered for a moment , his great hands opening and shutting in his agitation .
it was a prostrate man face downward upon the ground , the head doubled under him at a horrible angle , the shoulders rounded and the body hunched together as if in the act of throwing a somersault .
if you are distrustful , bring two friends .
i ask nothing better ,
we had left the damp fog of the great city behind us , and the night was fairly fine .
i staggered to my feet and ran with her along the corridor and down a winding stair .
he seemed himself to be agitated .
did n't you say that you have sent him money ?
i do not know how far sherlock holmes took any sleep that night , but when i came down to breakfast i found him pale and harassed , his bright eyes the brighter for the dark shadows round them .
my name is dr watson .
and yet i can find my way to the very heart of it and return alive .
we have established a most important fact by these questions , watson ,
the particular one at which my cabman pulled up had an air of smug and demure respectability in its old fashioned iron railings , its massive folding door , and its shining brasswork .
yesterday morning i was seated in my office at the bank when a card was brought in to me by one of the clerks .
even the rafters above our heads were lined by solemn fowls , who lazily shifted their weight from one leg to the other as our voices disturbed their slumbers .
i 'll offer him all the secrets of the lodge for a price .
they all preserve , however , the common characteristics of barrenness , inhospitality , and misery .
with my face over the brink , i saw him fall for a long way .
it was no uncommon thing for him to be away for days and nights on end when he was hot upon a scent , so that his lateness caused me no surprise .
i was covering you all the time .
they considered that it might be caused by arthur 's closing his bedroom door .
on the whole , it was most probable that the silent englishman , being less bold or less murderous than his companion , had assisted the woman to bear the unconscious man out of the way of danger .
that 's it ,
how dare you speak in such a way !
do you see ?
yet i was aware that gennaro was no more happy than i was in his presence .
by thus renewing the custom of the old feudal days the manor house was converted into an island during the night a fact which had a very direct bearing upon the mystery which was soon to engage the attention of all england .
i think that we have had a close shave ourselves of being arrested for the crime .
he glanced hurriedly at the note which had been handed in .
of the double moats which had guarded its more warlike predecessor , the outer had been allowed to dry up , and served the humble function of a kitchen garden .
holmes rose .
we have a clear month before us at the end of that , i guess we had best shin out of utah .
has she empowered you to accept my terms ?
take them in and get it over .
and on monday he made no remarks before leaving you ?
our visitor was so excited that he could hardly articulate , but at last in gasps and bursts his tragic story came out of him .
it was up at the top of the house , in mr bartholomew sholto 's chemical laboratory .
well , the whole thing hinges upon two points .
i had just finished my tea when he returned , evidently in excellent spirits , swinging an old elastic sided boot in his hand .
yes , a few of us even then could have guessed the date .
it was of excellent material , a sort of beige , but it bore unmistakable signs of having been worn before .
yours faithfully , j .
suddenly i saw him halt , listen intently , and then in an instant he had swung the door of the safe to , picked up his coat , stuffed his tools into the pockets , and darted behind the window curtain , motioning me to do the same .
he cried .
altogether there are eight maids , the cook , the butler , two footmen , and a boy .
not too busy to listen to you .
i guess the heavy end of this business is coming on to you .
your name is very familiar to me , mr holmes ,
had this test been invented , there are hundreds of men now walking the earth who would long ago have paid the penalty of their crimes .
what do you suggest , mr holmes ?
ah , here is the good mrs marker !
well , apart from this cigarette end , was it not suggestive that the only time the lodger went out was immediately after his taking the rooms ?
there is a modern part , which took all our garrison , women , children , stores , and everything else , with plenty of room over .
he got out at hobson 's patch , and so did i .
just to think of his having such an incomparable bit of good luck , and not taking advantage of it .
i could see that holmes was extremely pleased , for he chuckled and rubbed his hands together .
martyrs on the altar of our country .
yes , but there is another empty house farther up the street which he must have passed before he came to this one .
here it is !
lestrade rose in his triumph and bent his head to look .
too late !
he rose , and throwing off the black cassock and hat which had formed his disguise , he packed them away in a hand bag .
halloa !
is john openshaw , but my own affairs have , as far as i can understand , little to do with this awful business .
very retiring and gentlemanly he was .
he cried .
there 's coffee on the table , watson , and i have a cab at the door .
you see , morstan , small is a man of his word .
but how
there was scarce room for the whirl of his great arms as he talked .
we shall get out at canterbury .
the driver looked twice at such a shabby fare , but i jumped in before he could object .
pray be precise as to details ,
oh , she has gone to pay some accounts .
there were six of us , and we had a wild , free life of it , sticking up a station from time to time , or stopping the wagons on the road to the diggings .
oh , yes , i did .
here it is , sir you will see that i have said , ' i have determined not to go in for the examination .
he added , looking back over his shoulder at the american .
it is something new for me to see my name in the papers and to find the police in my house .
this villain had thought that i would be at sea before the news could reach me , and that i should be lost for years in africa .
amid the droning of the wind there had come the stamping of a horse 's hoofs , and the long grind of a wheel as it rasped against the curb .
but if you 'll give me six months , i 'll work it so that i can leave without being ashamed to look others in the face .
well , well , we score over you for once , mr holmes .
then you may entirely rely on me .
as to his escaping by that window , it was incredible .
a little occasional talk about half crowns , oysters , or any other extraneous subject produces a pleasing effect of delirium .
i daresay you are right .
i mentioned it to mr carruthers , who seemed interested in what i said , and told me that he had ordered a horse and trap , so that in future i should not pass over these lonely roads without some companion .
no except that it was leadenhall street .
but is it understandable that he should go out of his way to bring with him the most noisy weapon he could select , knowing well that it will fetch every human being in the house to the spot as quick as they can run , and that it is all odds that he will be seen before he can get across the moat ?
as she spoke a light sprang into view at the further end of the passage , and i saw the lean figure of colonel lysander stark rushing forward with a lantern in one hand and a weapon like a butcher 's cleaver in the other .
i should much prefer to hear now .
he cried , mischievously .
simon ,
she fought her way out again .
i searched the dundee records , and when i found that the barque ' lone star ' was there in january , ' , my suspicion became a certainty .
you are acquitted , captain crocker .
it was frozen over , but a single hole was left for the convenience of a solitary swan .
i have it here in my museum .
mr windibank sprang out of his chair and picked up his hat .
he has been buying things for children , you perceive .
have your way .
you must get home instantly and act .
but you look weary .
finally , we have the curious fact that the intruder carried away the key with him when he left .
many men do it when they are trying to learn anything by heart .
the brixton road does not lie between any circus and houndsditch ,
well , it 's just like any other speculation , and safer than most .
you 're safer there , councillor ,
on examining it , however , i found that this deposit was a comparatively small one , and that it formed a link between two very much larger ones upon the right and left both of them , however , in the grounds of my neighbours .
even now this report from paris does not help us much .
god bless you , anna !
the walls of his chest seemed to thrill and quiver as a frail building would do inside when some powerful engine was at work .
i felt angry at having been tricked by so elaborate a story as that which he had told me .
halloa !
this is sir henry baskerville ,
my mind had been too much excited by all that had occurred , and the strangest fancies and surmises crowded into it .
ask what you like , mr holmes ,
the knife with which the crime had been committed was a curved indian dagger , plucked down from a trophy of oriental arms which adorned one of the walls .
in fact , if i am not very much mistaken , here is the gentleman himself coming up the drive .
i thought i knew my watson .
swiftly and silently he made his way along the track which ran through the meadows , and so by way of the woods to the boscombe pool .
he had long nerved himself to the sacrifice , however , and the thought of the honour and happiness of his daughter outweighed any regret at his ruined fortunes .
very good .
the valley in which he found himself divided and sub divided into many gorges , which were so like each other that it was impossible to distinguish one from the other .
a stranger in these parts ?
if the lady who fainted on brixton bus ' she does not interest me .
say that she is not hurt !
that of all our cases we have had none more fantastic than this .
he must be a powerful man , this elder randall ,
look here , dad , can you let me have pounds ?
i have seen what the telegraph and the chronicle have to say .
shall i speak or you ?
i entered , and i took you into my confidence as to the suggestions of the side table .
i can tell my own secrets ,
and you go in disgrace .
i should be very much obliged if you would slip your revolver into your pocket .
first of all , i will ask the treasurer as to our bank balance .
this morning i received this letter , which you will perhaps read for yourself .
that 's not your pipe on the table .
he paused and listened for an answer .
draw up a little to the fire , and we will talk this matter over .
he cried .
he is not an englishman .
i do n't want to be remembered as a common cut throat .
that was his reason .
us , ' mark you !
at the sight boss mcginty gave the roar of a wounded bear and plunged for the half opened door .
yes , sir , my own views are very different .
our client had suddenly burst into the room with an explosive energy which told of some new and momentous development .
just before nine o'clock sherlock holmes stepped briskly into the room .
seizing a half consumed piece of wood from the smouldering fire , he blew it into a flame , and proceeded with its help to examine the little camp .
returned my companion .
you can rely upon my being there within half an hour at most .
what are you up to now ?
what they would have done had it not been a mistake , we can only conjecture .
when it does we may soon leave our difficulties behind us .
he left the guards with a good character and we can find nothing against him .
he showed me out through his own french window , which had been open all this time .
yes , yes , i see it all now !
for many years he had adopted a system of docketing all paragraphs concerning men and things , so that it was difficult to name a subject or a person on which he could not at once furnish information .
it darkens every moment of our lives .
i know now that i cannot have the use of it , and i know that they cannot .
but this gentleman in the cab is my client , mr hall pycroft .
i ought to be more case hardened after my afghan experiences .
it was just about two hours ago .
the man is by trade a conjurer and performer , going round the canteens after nightfall , and giving a little entertainment at each .
it was at that instant that the idea came to me .
she explained that she was the commissionnaire 's wife , who did the charing , and i gave her the order for the coffee .
though i knew the danger , i determined to have the child over , if it were but for a few weeks .
it seemed to me that her mistress allowed her to take great liberties .
then no doubt the lady went out the way she came .
he hailed me at half past nine in trafalgar square .
for two hours i watched him as he covered sheet after sheet of paper with figures and letters , so completely absorbed in his task that he had evidently forgotten my presence .
my wife came out into the hall as i entered my house but i was too hurt and angry to speak with her , and pushing past her , i made my way into my study .
my data were coming more quickly than i could have reasonably hoped .
i 'll wager that the black dress shows a corresponding mark to this .
there you have the whole truth of it .
the bell !
you have been walking for some months very near to the edge of a precipice .
the larger crimes are apt to be the simpler , for the bigger the crime the more obvious , as a rule , is the motive .
dead stop .
it was dated at midnight of the preceding night and ran in this way :
this is a very singular knife ,
i hope , gentlemen , that you will come in and have some refreshment .
i remembered his words when i was in doubt and darkness myself .
he shouted to my companion , running towards us with a test tube in his hand .
there can be only one adequate reason .
that is clear , is it not ?
twice since i have been with them he has been quite drunk , and yet mr rucastle seemed to take no notice of it .
you must know something of this matter , cowper .
i had hardly settled in my chair before i was conscious of a thick , musky odour , subtle and nauseous .
well , watson , it 's as well we have not to turn out to night ,
say , mister ,
i will go no further in this matter .
i am telling that which i have not confided to anyone .
i was able to obtain five very clear impressions of his foot marks : one in the roadway itself , at the point where he had climbed the low wall , two on the lawn , and two very faint ones upon the stained boards near the window where he had entered .
and i would have you believe , my sons , that the same justice which punishes sin may also most graciously forgive it , and that no ban is so heavy but that by prayer and repentance it may be removed .
a flush of vexation passed over her expressive face .
he had my letter on his desk , i handed him the document .
you will find parallel cases , if you consult my index , in andover in ' , and there was something of the sort at the hague last year .
she cried , throwing back her head and looking defiantly at lestrade .
it seemed that after we had left , prendergast and his gang had proceeded to put to death the five remaining prisoners .
in each case the outside porter will send for the hall porter , to whom also you will give a shilling .
she might have buried the ears , and no one would have been the wiser .
it is impossible ,
the track of a horse was plainly outlined in the soft earth in front of him , and the shoe which he took from his pocket exactly fitted the impression .
he had always determined , deep down in his resolute heart , that nothing would ever induce him to allow his daughter to wed a mormon .
among these he rummaged and read , with intervals of note taking and of meditation , until we were past reading .
he swung himself up onto the roof .
the matter is now in the hands of the police but it can hardly be hoped that their exertions will be attended by any better results than in the past .
another big fact is the remarkable experience of our client , scott eccles .
it is a little souvenir from the king of bohemia in return for my assistance in the case of the irene adler papers .
having found the ash , i then looked round and discovered the stump among the moss where he had tossed it .
the steam ploughs had , however , kept the railroad open , and the evening train which connects the long line of coal mining and iron working settlements was slowly groaning its way up the steep gradients which lead from stagville on the plain to vermissa , the central township which lies at the head of vermissa valley .
it appeared to be somewhat too heavy for his strength , for in lowering it , it came down on the ground with some little violence .
you quoted some of it .
really , watson , you excel yourself ,
he danced about in his agitation , a ludicrous object if it were not for his ashy face and startled eyes .
count the cost !
he spoke good english , sir , and yet i thought he was a foreigner by his accent .
was there a fellow about thirty , black bearded , dark , of middle size ?
what would you say if i were to start you in brook street ?
yet we added one more sheaf to our harvest before we left woolwich station .
it struck me as being a remarkable mixture of shrewdness and of absurdity .
she shouted .
driving back in the evening from coombe tracey he was in time to get his hound , to treat it with his infernal paint , and to bring the beast round to the gate at which he had reason to expect that he would find the old gentleman waiting .
when did he say this ?
but how about our investigation in london ?
however , we find that we shall want no more evidence , for on being brought before the inspector at the station he asked leave to make a statement , which was , of course , taken down , just as he made it , by our shorthand man .
and ample for us both ,
the patient and i then plunged into a discussion of his case , of which i took exhaustive notes .
see here .
can you fit us both into your dog cart ?
it may possibly recur to your memory that when i examined the paper upon which the printed words were fastened i made a close inspection for the water mark .
this incident gives zest to our investigation , however , and i only trust that our little friend will not suffer from her imprudence in allowing this brute to trace her .
the one is as deep as the other .
she had hardly said the words when young mr mccarthy came running up to the lodge to say that he had found his father dead in the wood , and to ask for the help of the lodge keeper .
the man was trying to force the lock .
it was of coarse sealskin the straight haired skin , with a leather thong to bind it .
before deciding that question i had grasped the significance of the silence of the dog , for one true inference invariably suggests others .
we shall find him in hudson street to morrow , watson , and meanwhile i should be the criminal myself if i kept you out of bed any longer .
i rang again and again , with the same result .
certainly .
at first they were of a mind to let him enter the house and to kill him as a detected burglar but they argued that if they were mixed up in an inquiry their own identity would at once be publicly disclosed and they would be open to further attacks .
you have introduced yourselves , i can see .
how could you possibly know that ?
you would n't squeal on a fellow ?
this northern air is invigorating and pleasant , so i propose to spend a few days upon your moors , and to occupy my mind as best i may .
and as much more when he has seen all my papers .
but this rose is an extra .
could you take me away ?
that smacked of the sea .
when he told us of a man in a pew , of the change in the bride 's manner , of so transparent a device for obtaining a note as the dropping of a bouquet , of her resort to her confidential maid , and of her very significant allusion to claim jumping which in miners ' parlance means taking possession of that which another person has a prior claim to the whole situation became absolutely clear .
there is the writing .
it has been an exceedingly difficult and most complicated business .
all i want now is to know what they all mean .
her boots i did n't observe .
kindly raise that small ivory box with its assistance .
give me another mouthful of that brandy and i shall be ready for anything .
what was at the window , and when ?
the house was a fair sized one , standing back from the road , with a curving drive which was banked with high evergreen shrubs .
where will their grand advertisement be now ?
well , well , i have a clear day , and i shall be happy to look into the matter ,
it is nothing ,
the brute !
then , with the aid of the groom and the stable boy , they had conveyed their injured mistress to her room .
after passing , he looked back and saw a man descend the ladder .
the question now was , who was the man and who was it brought him the coronet ?
god help me , but i am near out of my wits over it !
sir henry had flung it open , and the cold night wind beat in upon our faces .
we must cast round for another scent .
the young hunter 's dark face grew so gloomy over this remark that lucy ferrier laughed aloud .
mcmurdo had obtained a temporary job as bookkeeper for he was a well educated man .
of course it may work out all right , and i do n't see that i could have done otherwise but if i have lost my crib and get nothing in exchange i shall feel what a soft johnnie i have been .
but no sign of him or the german could be seen .
how the talk got that way i canna think but he had out a reflector lantern and a globe , and made it all clear in a minute .
but first he examined the papers which i had brought .
the porter had observed his hand trembling when he had held out the note .
at last she looked up with something reckless and defiant in her manner .
take a stride forward to prove it .
which window is that ?
this beauty has guessed miss hunter 's intentions and has carried his victim off .
then she would meet me no more .
ah , martha , you will be glad to hear that all is well .
i wanted information , watson .
ejaculated phelps .
i assure you that i have never in my life seen anything more clearly .
but not one word shall they have from me , and i bind you to secrecy also , dr watson .
have you met mr james desmond ?
it is locked up , ' i answered .
by means of this i had access to at least one spot in this great city where i could rely upon being free from interruption .
as to my own case , i am ready to give you any information which may assist you in forming an opinion .
it 's a baddish business ,
kindly hand me down the letter k of the ' american encyclopaedia ' which stands upon the shelf beside you .
main stair , first corridor , seventh right , green baize .
we both sat in silence for some little time after listening to this extraordinary narrative .
it was undoubtedly the german master .
i 'll see it in my dreams
excellent !
fortune has been your friend .
it might possibly be inconvenient to me if you could find your way there again .
perhaps she could not or would not have told you much .
they come in spite of it , and when the husband mentions casually to the wife that there are new comers in the cottage , she knows in some way that they are her pursuers .
a cold , damp reek from the moat chilled us to the bones and set our teeth chattering .
they were all confederates in the same unknown crime .
under no conceivable circumstances were the plans to be taken from the office .
besides , she is not so very young .
i stood at the door for a few minutes , and now i am quite myself again .
we must stay where we are .
i have never seen the prime minister so upset .
there was no use your giving this unnecessary trouble .
it 's mad on the face of it !
one of the most precious public possessions of the empire ,
and what did your wife do when she finished speaking to her maid ?
there , too , were droves of sheep and bullocks coming in from the outlying pasture lands , and trains of tired immigrants , men and horses equally weary of their interminable journey .
they are not very exacting , after all .
these papers have all been burned by the murderers .
i am a dying man ,
horrified at the suddenness and severity of the attack , we carried him into the kitchen , where he lay back in a large chair , and breathed heavily for some minutes .
neither would i ,
is he not the celebrated author of the dynamics of an asteroid , a book which ascends to such rarefied heights of pure mathematics that it is said that there was no man in the scientific press capable of criticizing it ?
he sank his head into his hands again and remained for some minutes in the deepest thought .
i am so glad you have come , mr thaddeus , sir !
if the two people were murdered , who but their murderer would have sent this sign of his work to miss cushing ?
for all my efforts two more had passed before i found myself at the fall of reichenbach once more .
you are very kind , mr holmes , but i cannot do that .
hoped to hear sooner .
john ferrier made no answer , but he played nervously with his riding whip .
she must go on .
it grew worse as alice grew up , for he soon saw i was more afraid of her knowing my past than of the police .
i have seen the will of the deceased wife ,
i rather fancy that this lady may be as anxious to give us information as we can be to get it .
we sat in silence for some minutes , holmes more depressed and shaken than i had ever seen him .
eliminate all other factors , and the one which remains must be the truth .
where had you engaged a seat ?
certainly , i will come at once .
when i cried out that it was a false alarm , she replaced it , glanced at the rocket , rushed from the room , and i have not seen her since .
his face was haggard with anxiety .
, of stepney .
as he turned it slantwise to the light , the glint upon the rims of the copper shells within the drum showed that it was fully loaded .
danger !
we will now suppose that as he went to the theatre with the young lady he suddenly , in the fog , caught a glimpse of this same agent going in the direction of the office .
the house was just such as i had pictured it from sherlock holmes ' succinct description , but the locality appeared to be less private than i expected .
he writes from lower brixton ,
tonga thought he had done something very clever in killing him , for when i came up by the rope i found him strutting about as proud as a peacock .
of course , what has happened is very clear .
the lens discloses a large number of hair ends , clean cut by the scissors of the barber .
i murmured ,
i wonder !
at his heels came our old friend lestrade , of scotland yard thin and austere .
enormous .
we have not had a peaceful hour since not one .
he hesitated .
journal of psychology , march , .
i am sure you did not , for a duster would have swept away these shreds of varnish .
standing as it does near the corner of the street , it commands a view down howe street , with its more pretentious houses .
i should prefer to have clearer proofs before i speak .
do n't you see that you alternately give him credit for having too much imagination and too little ?
you had chalk between your left finger and thumb when you returned from the club last night .
from time to time i heard some vague account of his doings : of his summons to odessa in the case of the trepoff murder , of his clearing up of the singular tragedy of the atkinson brothers at trincomalee , and finally of the mission which he had accomplished so delicately and successfully for the reigning family of holland .
mr latimer followed closely at my heels , and took his place opposite to me without a word .
we 'll have the truth out of him , never fear ,
early to bed to night , watson , for i foresee that to morrow may be an eventful day .
snap goes our third thread , and we end where we began ,
so it is , ' he cried .
as they approached the centre of the town the scene was brightened by a row of well lit stores , and even more by a cluster of saloons and gaming houses , in which the miners spent their hard earned but generous wages .
i have already shown you that it could only lie in some large house , and that the number of large houses is limited .
i have had everything left untouched .
i must go back a bit .
that a man on the very night of joining the lodge should have done something which brought him before the magistrate was a new record in the annals of the society .
get back into your chair !
for the sake of the trust .
from a rise of the road on the shoulder of crooksbury hill , we could see the grim hall bristling out from amidst the ancient oaks , which , old as they were , were still younger than the building which they surrounded .
i was sitting reading in the chair .
then i answer , certainly not .
when the detective departed , my friend rose and made his preparations for the day 's work with the alert air of a man who has a congenial task before him .
but consider the facts .
it was perfectly obvious to me , on reading the ritual , that the measurements must refer to some spot to which the rest of the document alluded , and that if we could find that spot , we should be in a fair way towards finding what the secret was which the old musgraves had thought it necessary to embalm in so curious a fashion .
had your father , miss morstan , refrained from throwing a strain upon his heart , he might have been alive now .
it was not until long after we were back in poldhu cottage that holmes broke his complete and absorbed silence .
but all amenities were wasted upon the angry german .
i should then at my leisure have hired a second cab and followed the first at a respectful distance , or , better still , have driven to the northumberland hotel and waited there .
the words fell quite distinctly upon my ear .
his room was on the second floor , at the farther end of the building , facing the same way as lord saltire ' s .
the devil knows best what he said , but at least she became his tool and was in the habit of seeing him nearly every evening .
i 'll blow your face in if you lay a hand on me .
meanwhile we left lestrade in possession of the house while holmes and i went back with the baronet to baskerville hall .
but he has never let us get together and it was only today for the first time that i saw a chance of having a few words with her alone .
and yet such a death was sure to overtake him if he persisted .
i hardly noticed his appearance .
the blow is a fatal one .
do you know the young lady ?
all goes well , my friend ,
the cause of death was a deep stab in the left side , which must have penetrated the heart .
it was dark in colour and flakey such an ash as is only made by a trichinopoly .
it is horrible to me to think of him still lying there .
and i have also communicated with my faithful cartwright , who would certainly have pined away at the door of my hut , as a dog does at his master 's grave , if i had not set his mind at rest about my safety .
he stepped swiftly forward and touched the duke upon the shoulder .
it is all fair and above board .
the area door of oberstein 's house had been left open the night before , and it was necessary for me , as mycroft holmes absolutely and indignantly declined to climb the railings , to pass in and open the hall door .
his troubled blue eyes glanced at each of us , and finally rested with an expression of blank dismay upon bannister in the farther corner .
third floor .
you had better clean it and load it .
where are we going to now ?
but i will tell you all and you shall judge for yourself .
if any man gives us away , it would be he .
i trust that we are not too late ,
let me have the date of the reception by your uncle of the letter , and the date of his supposed suicide .
this fact , which has been very clearly made out , proves conclusively that it was no mere haphazard burglary .
oh , well , he was very good about it .
but i have had a very strange experience , and as i have no parents or relations of any sort from whom i could ask advice , i thought that perhaps you would be kind enough to tell me what i should do .
there had been a daughter , i heard , but she had died of diphtheria while on a visit to birmingham .
and how did you get your clue ?
supposing that this unhappy young man 's story were absolutely true , then what hellish thing , what absolutely unforeseen and extraordinary calamity could have occurred between the time when he parted from his father , and the moment when , drawn back by his screams , he rushed into the glade ?
then he turned upon his heel , and an instant later the outer door had banged behind him .
you are hungry ,
the heavens , too , may not be quite so peaceful if all that the good zepplin promises us comes true .
it is much used now , especially for the seasoning of wood .
have you dragged the basin of trafalgar square fountain ?
you can take him to the mortuary now ,
there are decidedly some points of interest in connection with it .
he stepped over to the window and shouted through it at the top of his voice that the vacancy was filled .
i came to you , mr holmes , because i recognized that i am myself an unpractical man and because i am suddenly confronted with a most serious and extraordinary problem .
there was something of mr pickwick 's benevolence in his appearance , marred only by the insincerity of the fixed smile and by the hard glitter of those restless and penetrating eyes .
i 'd teach him better manners if i caught him at it !
oh holmes , i shall never forgive myself for having left him to his fate .
the housemaid , saunders .
and now i come to the most surprising part of my story , my dear son .
i would not have his cursed stock mixed with mine not that i had any dislike to the lad , but his blood was in him , and that was enough .
my father is dead , mr holmes .
a woman 's whim , dr watson .
it was only to day that i spoke to major prendergast about my troubles and was advised by him to come to you .
yes , sir
i would suggest , for example , that a presentation to a doctor is more likely to come from a hospital than from a hunt , and that when the initials ' c .
in the present instance i am forced to admit that the facts are , to the best of my belief , unique .
she wrote me dreadful letters when she heard that i was about to be married , and , to tell the truth , the reason why i had the marriage celebrated so quietly was that i feared lest there might be a scandal in the church .
there was one small point ,
a fraudulent imitation , watson , though i should hardly dare to hint as much to our specialist .
i am much indebted to you , sir , for a scotch bonnet is fitted neither to my years nor my gravity .
this case of yours is very complex , sir henry .
i think , watson , that i shall resume that course of tobacco poisoning which you have so often and so justly condemned ,
you are talking insanely .
whose loot is this , if it is not ours ?
i 'm sorry , councillor .
you are detectives , i suppose ?
it does me good to see you .
as i glanced at the box i noticed , with a start , that upon the lid was printed the treble k which i had read in the morning upon the envelope .
he laughed heartily at my perplexity .
never to return .
we made our way to brussels that night and spent two days there , moving on upon the third day as far as strasburg .
the room was empty , and the bed had never been slept in .
and how in the world did you find them ?
i assure you i speak for your good .
it is no time for me to hide anything .
if your husband thinks fit to keep you in the dark over this matter , is it for me , who has only learned the true facts under the pledge of professional secrecy , to tell what he has withheld ?
adventure viii .
he felt that that was to play his enemy 's game , so he reluctantly returned to the old nevada mines , there to recruit his health and to amass money enough to allow him to pursue his object without privation .
what is this ?
you 'll find the treasure where the key is , and where little tonga is .
you know , victor , ' turning to his son , ' when we broke up that poaching gang they swore to knife us , and sir edward holly has actually been attacked .
our breakfast table was cleared early , and holmes waited in his dressing gown for the promised interview .
bartholomew wilson .
he paused after each sentence to collect his failing strength .
this is it on the blue paper , and these slips , as i have explained , are the rough draft .
i would trust you anywhere .
again and again in cases of the most varying sorts forgery cases , robberies , murders i have felt the presence of this force , and i have deduced its action in many of those undiscovered crimes in which i have not been personally consulted .
yes , some of us are a little too much inclined to be cock sure , mr holmes ,
running up , i blew its brains out , and it fell over with its keen white teeth still meeting in the great creases of his neck .
lynch him !
it is a very sweet little problem , and i would not have missed it for a good deal .
mrs douglas had been standing listening at the half opened door , and now she entered the room .
the evidence of the barrymores shows that this had been his custom .
a half smoked , sodden cigar hung from the corner of his mouth , and as he sat down he struck a match and relit it .
then we had a talk as to what we should do , and frank was all for openness , but i was so ashamed of it all that i felt as if i should like to vanish away and never see any of them again just sending a line to pa , perhaps , to show him that i was alive .
on the death of sir charles we inquired for this young gentleman and found that he had been farming in canada .
winner of the jackson prize for comparative pathology , with essay entitled ' is disease a reversion ?
when the inscription was discovered upon the wall i was more inclined than ever to my opinion .
move your light across the window , watson !
well , it is conjectured to be so .
her feminine perception , however , had instantly seen through the disguise when , on the occasion of the interpreter 's visit , she had seen him for the first time .
the bedroom window was a broad one and opened from below .
pompey ran about and whined eagerly outside the gate , where the marks of the brougham 's wheels were still to be seen .
we shall now see how the electric blue dress will become you .
we have set one of our women on to her .
we are too late .
oh , it is a matter of no importance but i do n't know why you should be so warm over such a trifle .
seated in a corner like an interested student who observes the demonstration of his professor , i followed every step of that remarkable research .
just as you like .
holmes 's face was turned towards it , and he muttered impatiently as he watched its sluggish drift .
i exclaimed .
as to you , carruthers , you would have done better to keep your pistol in your pocket .
then join me in a coffee and curacao .
it did not seem to me conclusive .
if , on the other hand , i am to do it in the name of the firm , then in justice to my partner i must insist that , even in your case , every businesslike precaution should be taken .
possibly not , my good watson .
shall we turn back ?
but there was the reference to david , and there was the known affection of the colonel for his wife , to weigh against it , to say nothing of the tragic intrusion of this other man , which might , of course , be entirely disconnected with what had gone before .
we have quite a little round of afternoon calls to make ,
old shoes , but newly shod old shoes , but new nails .
quite so !
beside this table , on the wooden chair , sat dr grimesby roylott clad in a long grey dressing gown , his bare ankles protruding beneath , and his feet thrust into red heelless turkish slippers .
no , no : i never guess .
he lifted the little child , kissed her , and then , still carrying her , he held his other hand out to his wife and turned towards the door .
when he came out he staggered in his walk , and was evidently pretty well on .
none of those which come to me are .
do you stay on guard , my good watson , and receive any fresh visitors .
there was a sharp snick as the electric light was turned on .
a young assistant informed us that mr harding would be absent until afternoon , and that he was himself a newcomer , who could give us no information .
holmes smiled and shook his head .
imitated .
when it comes to beating the subjects in the dissecting rooms with a stick , it is certainly taking rather a bizarre shape .
i hope your visit has cast some light upon those occurrences which have puzzled us ?
this afternoon a good lunch was brought me , but the moment after i took it i knew that i had been drugged .
then i pulled myself together and went back and pushed the door open .
the words were hardly out of his mouth before a man appeared at the door of the room , a very fat and burly man , with a heavy stick in his hand .
well , perhaps it is better that i should not tell you that just at this moment .
odds and ends , some pipes , a few novels , two of them in spanish , an old fashioned pinfire revolver , and a guitar were among the personal property .
quick , madam , the time grows short !
how did he know ?
i thought that he was perfectly hateful and i was sure that cyril would not wish me to know such a person .
he sent in his card with a message that he had come on important business , and a moment later we were face to face with the man whom we had come to see .
for the rest , there was nothing of much importance in the attic save a great many scattered papers and note books bearing upon my uncle 's life in america .
he was pale when we entered the room ,
all was sweet and mellow and peaceful in the golden evening light , and yet as i looked at them my soul shared none of the peace of nature but quivered at the vagueness and the terror of that interview which every instant was bringing nearer .
his appearance corresponded to the sounds which we had heard .
the same day there arrived through the post a small card board box addressed to me , which i found to contain a very large and lustrous pearl .
quick , watson , quick !
now the great salt plain stretched before his eyes , and the distant belt of savage mountains , without a sign anywhere of plant or tree , which might indicate the presence of moisture .
i have made some inquiries myself in the last few days , but the results have , i fear , been negative .
there were points about this strange business which would , i was sure , have specially appealed to him , and the efforts of the police would have been supplemented , or more probably anticipated , by the trained observation and the alert mind of the first criminal agent in europe .
and you think that they brought you back all that way when you were unconscious ?
several rolls of paper lay around him .
could he have got back to cambridge ?
it is customary at mawson 's for the clerks to leave at midday on saturday .
perhaps he is waiting for a better price .
come back to your duties when you are stronger .
well , i 'll answer ,
he could not have fractured his skull in a fall ?
there can , i think , be no doubt that this battered and shapeless diadem once encircled the brows of the royal stuarts .
these were the two men who entered abruptly into our little sitting room on tuesday , march the th , shortly after our breakfast hour , as we were smoking together , preparatory to our daily excursion upon the moors .
we shall be lying off in the stream , and it will be a strange thing if we do not take men , treasure , and all .
this , in truth , his neighbours might have pardoned , seeing that saints have never flourished in those parts , but there was in him a certain wanton and cruel humour which made his name a by word through the west .
i had just time to get up to town by the night train to see him this morning , and to bring you both back with me to birmingham .
it was sheer frenzy of this sort which made him throw his hands up into the air when his father , at their last interview , was goading him on to propose to miss turner .
this second one leads by means of a second small stair to a side door , used by servants , and also as a short cut by clerks when coming from charles street .
he had visited friends in hammersmith that night .
go and do the other half ,
block the road !
i have notes of several similar cases , though none , as i remarked before , which were quite as prompt .
he held it up and tapped on it with his long , thin fore finger , as a professor might who was lecturing on a bone .
i sat until after eleven in this room , absorbed in a book .
did you ever meet any one who knew her in america ?
i must reconsider my ideas .
can you not tell when a warning is for your own good ?
my advice to you , sir , is to speak the truth .
i tell you that i had the first right to her , and that i was only claiming my own .
he took away ten .
and have they occurred ?
his appearance was such that he might have been the very genius or demon of the region .
thank god !
is one where , as in the investigations which you have chronicled under the names of ' a study in scarlet ' and of ' the sign of four , ' we have been compelled to reason backward from effects to causes .
tomorrow some other little problem may be submitted to my notice which will in turn dispossess the fair french lady and the infamous upwood .
the only unofficial detective ?
now for the central table .
when i passed outside , however , and pressed down the levers which controlled it , i knew at once by the whishing sound that there was a slight leakage , which allowed a regurgitation of water through one of the side cylinders .
he had built himself a wooden outhouse he always called it the ' cabin ' a few hundred yards from his house , and it was here that he slept every night .
how shall i ever forget that dreadful vigil ?
he was found dead this morning upon oxshott common , nearly a mile from his home .
shall i read it , mr gregson ?
this stone is not yet twenty years old .
have you nothing to add ?
you can n't help me .
i felt that my position was an embarrassing one .
well , you can ask the king of proosia , for all i care .
i heard it distinctly , and i am sure that it was really the sob of a woman .
why , mr holmes , the crime was only committed at three this morning .
while in london on this treasonable mission he met his end .
i was already deeply interested in his inquiry , for , though it was surrounded by none of the grim and strange features which were associated with the two crimes which i have already recorded , still , the nature of the case and the exalted station of his client gave it a character of its own .
it had just struck three on the palace clock when i found myself back once more at pondicherry lodge .
then , with a gesture of desperation , he tore the mask from his face and hurled it upon the ground .
thanks .
then he vanished over the hill .
entirely .
then i looked in upon your son , told him that all was right , and eventually got to my bed about two o'clock , after what i may call a really hard day 's work .
i saw him at it with my own eyes .
my business took me into town at certain seasons , but in summer i had less to do , and then in our country home my wife and i were just as happy as could be wished .
happily , i have always laid great stress upon it , and much practice has made it second nature to me .
see here , morris , will you leave this thing in my hands ?
i called in the inspector and gave him into custody .
i receive an anonymous communication from a quarter which i know to be important , warning me that danger threatens a certain person .
it is my business to know things .
i 'm not afraid of you , and do n't you think it !
you will n't cut that metal with any tool .
i tell you , holmes , i have had to keep a tight hold upon myself all this time and now i am asking myself whether , if i had let myself go a little more , i might not have been a wiser man .
i stood dumb with astonishment , watching him from the darkness .
here , amid his books and his maps , he lived an absolutely lonely life , attending to his own simple wants and paying little apparent heed to the affairs of his neighbours .
there were other qualities needed , however , besides those of good fellowship , to make a worthy freeman , and of these he was given an example before the evening was over .
the object which he held up to me was a small pocket or pouch woven out of colored grasses and with a few tawdry beads strung round it .
there were the two towers of baskerville hall , and there a distant blur of smoke which marked the village of grimpen .
into this you will step , and you will reach victoria in time for the continental express .
events proved that i had judged correctly .
the reasoner drew his conclusions from the actions of the man whom he observed .
i will do anything i can .
this will do very well .
an easy going , free handed gentleman ,
now we come out on the vauxhall bridge road .
i never read such rubbish in my life .
i will n't have a fuss made about such nonsense .
but the money , mr holmes , the money !
i will not trouble you with any lengthy cross examination , professor coram , since i gather that you were in bed at the time of the crime , and could know nothing about it .
that all fits into your hypothesis , watson .
you may safely trust us .
maybe not in chicago .
holmes dashed into the crowd to protect the lady but just as he reached her he gave a cry and dropped to the ground , with the blood running freely down his face .
but for all his efforts he could not get his balance , and over he went .
only by breaking them could he see .
see what my wife found in its crop !
this garden door is usually kept open , i suppose ?
we had best ascertain if he is really there , or if by any possibility he might be in london .
you would not call me a marrying man , watson ?
i might , it is true , have reversed my boots , as i have done on similar occasions , but the sight of three sets of tracks in one direction would certainly have suggested a deception .
but so aloof is he from general suspicion , so immune from criticism , so admirable in his management and self effacement , that for those very words that you have uttered he could hale you to a court and emerge with your year 's pension as a solatium for his wounded character .
but he is in his room .
he was a man of excellent birth and education , who had squandered a fortune upon the turf , and who lived now by doing a little quiet and genteel book making in the sporting clubs of london .
i was still looking rather ruefully after the rapidly disappearing luggage van which contained my wardrobe , when holmes pulled my sleeve and pointed up the line .
therefore they gave you a handsome advance on your salary , and ran you off to the midlands , where they gave you enough work to do to prevent your going to london , where you might have burst their little game up .
she is very nervous , and begged me to come back .
good gracious , mr holmes , do you mean to tell me that , all the time i was talking to bannister in this room , we had the man prisoner if we had only known it ?
then i had to act and act quickly .
an instant afterwards he had closed the door behind us , and we had become felons in the eyes of the law .
it never recovered from the blow , and much of my capital was irretrievably swallowed up .
then you are not going ,
the maid had entered with us , and began once more to foment the bruise upon her mistress 's brow .
well , did you see him , watson ?
and this man of simple tastes would be the heir to sir charles 's thousands .
no , you need not draw the blind .
very grave results indeed .
you have not had a cable , have you ?
it is legible and regular ,
it reads almost as though it were an appointment .
mr thaddeus sholto looked from one to the other of us with an obvious pride at the effect which his story had produced , and then continued between the puffs of his overgrown pipe .
uncle and nephew have been murdered the one frightened to death by the very sight of a beast which he thought to be supernatural , the other driven to his end in his wild flight to escape from it .
when the house is renovated and refurnished , all that he will need will be a wife to make it complete .
so i read it .
we may have been seen together .
a man appears from behind the curtain .
knock old sherman up , and tell him , with my compliments , that i want toby at once .
for two hours we rambled about together , in silence for the most part , as befits two men who know each other intimately .
if this paper remains blue , all is well .
mrs hudson , the landlady of sherlock holmes , was a long suffering woman .
how so ?
but one evening my eyes were opened .
holmes burst out laughing .
lestrade , being rather puzzled , has referred the case to me , and hence it is that two middle aged gentlemen are flying westward at fifty miles an hour instead of quietly digesting their breakfasts at home .
the points would affect no object inside the train .
oh yes , you have ,
on that first occasion , when she was alone , she says that the voices of her master and mistress were sunk so low that she could hear hardly anything , and judged by their tones rather than their words that they had fallen out .
i hardly looked at his face .
but i have been running round making inquiries before i came to you .
but soon their skins turned cold , for there came a galloping across the moor , and the black mare , dabbled with white froth , went past with trailing bridle and empty saddle .
if he met it in some nefarious enterprise her lips might be sealed .
well , we never thought of that .
he 's a young man , mr merryweather , but he is at the head of his profession , and i would rather have my bracelets on him than on any criminal in london .
the old gentleman with the telescope , no doubt .
and you accept the rule of the bodymaster for the time being under all circumstances ?
yes , the actual facts are very plain , and i shall be surprised if by the afternoon i cannot give you the reasons for them as well .
you are aware that johann faber is the most common maker 's name .
wanted to know all he could about the scowrers and what he called ' the outrages ' for a new york paper .
if the launch is above water they will find her ,
my blushes , watson !
they were taken from the same mould .
and yet there was the dead man and there the revolver bullet , which had mushroomed out , as soft nosed bullets will , and so inflicted a wound which must have caused instantaneous death .
i do n't know that .
we both went down together , for i could not keep my balance , but when i got up i found him still lying quiet enough .
these are the more patent facts which are to be deduced from his hat .
i feared that you had given it up in despair .
it comprises snow capped and lofty mountains , and dark and gloomy valleys .
his features were gravely set , but there was a light in his eye which made me think that he had not been disappointed in his conclusions .
because i recognized their sentinel when i glanced out of my window .
there 's not a man would cross it after sundown if he was paid for it .
i do n't think you need alarm yourself ,
he turns to his bicycle .
i have run all the way in order to cut you off , dr watson ,
i enjoy it .
perhaps you will spare an hour that i may have the pleasure of introducing you to my sister .
ay , that 's remarkable ,
then came your sudden return .
on a quiet countryside , where all gossip is welcome , this weakness of the lady of the manor house did not pass without remark , and it bulked larger upon people 's memory when the events arose which gave it a very special significance .
how did you know that ?
lestrade whispered .
but suppose you had a friend up here who lowered you this good stout rope which i see in the corner , securing one end of it to this great hook in the wall .
we are but preventing her from injuring another .
cried the baronet .
then if it is really necessary we can go into my room .
she had come from the direction in which the plume of smoke indicated the position of merripit house , but the dip of the moor had hid her until she was quite close .
cried the hotel waiter , opening the door of our sitting room , and ushering in a visitor .
let me see what are my other shortcomings .
three bob and a tanner for tickets .
it was pitch dark inside the house , and the colonel fumbled about looking for matches and muttering under his breath .
i confess that i share dr mortimer 's belief that it will not be long before the missing boot is found .
was ever such a dreary , dismal , unprofitable world ?
and you , a trained man of science , believe it to be supernatural ?
that , at least , is very easily settled ,
i tapped upon the floor , but it sounded the same all over , and there was no sign of any crack or crevice .
i have come prepared to do so ,
precisely so ,
as we steamed slowly up stream again , we flashed our search light in every direction , but there was no sign of the islander .
my suggestion is that you and i go to night and see if we can strike at the very heart of the mystery .
what did they say , then , of the disappearance of these gems ?
watson , if you can spare the time , i should be very glad of your company .
the european secretary pulled nervously at his moustache and fidgeted with the seals of his watch chain .
yes , i promise .
which dealer 's ?
it was not necessary .
have you heard anything of the lodge in these parts ?
the other had been silent all this time , but i had observed that his more controlled excitement was even greater than the obtrusive emotion of the clergyman .
at his call they entered the room , and the stranger was lifted and carried out .
agent .
horner , who had shown signs of intense emotion during the proceedings , fainted away at the conclusion and was carried out of court .
why , she went up there to live in order to be near them .
on the roof !
the ring , after all , proves nothing .
the lord st .
hudson had been seen lurking about , and it was believed by the police that he had done away with beddoes and had fled .
i presume , doctor , that you could tell the skull of a negro from that of an esquimau ?
presently he emerged , looking even more flurried than before .
have you seen him ?
but the most dreadful ill luck pursued me .
and i came to better myself !
i 've found it ,
i am afraid joseph 's character is a rather deeper and more dangerous one than one might judge from his appearance .
by john underwood and sons , , camberwell road .
what could he do ?
it is worth a mud bath ,
we are glad to learn that mr lestrade and mr gregson , of scotland yard , are both engaged upon the case , and it is confidently anticipated that these well known officers will speedily throw light upon the matter .
sure , it 's not for the likes of you to ask what the man has done .
cried macdonald , rising angrily from his chair .
i am quite ready for tavistock .
if you hear anyone come , bolt it on the inside , and we can get away as we came .
but how in the world did you know that he was in the house at all ?
that villainous stuff seems still to linger round my throat .
i thought that i would just ask you whether you had heard it .
it is just these very simple things which are extremely liable to be overlooked .
there can be no question as to their nature ,
do not think that i intrude one story before another is finished .
in the event of your acceding to my request it is probable that i shall have to narrate them to you .
well , we carried him in , abdullah , akbar , and i .
as he stepped into the circle of yellow light thrown by the lantern she saw that he was a person of gentlemanly bearing , dressed in a gray suit of tweeds , with a cloth cap .
but i resisted all his solicitations and succeeded in dissuading him from his announced intention of walking home with me .
this was clearly what the burglar had done , so i went round and opened the door .
yes , indeed .
he hid them , and he tried hard to swear away the young man 's life .
at two in the morning the rounds passed , and broke for a moment the weariness of the night .
so each of my cases displaces the last , and mlle .
like most clever criminals , he may be too confident in his own cleverness and imagine that he has completely deceived us .
sherlock holmes rose with a smile .
blue and black jacket .
oh , hurry , jack , hurry !
there are one or two small things mere formalities which i must arrange with you .
one of the highest in england .
all the way they were ahead of me , one on each side of the horse until i pulled up at the house in the brixton road .
lestrade and mycroft were fidgeting in their seats and looking twice a minute at their watches .
i helped her to escape ?
there was , however , no trace of exultation or satisfaction upon his face .
he held them on his nose , endeavoured to read through them , went to the window and stared up the street with them , looked at them most minutely in the full light of the lamp , and finally , with a chuckle , seated himself at the table and wrote a few lines upon a sheet of paper , which he tossed across to stanley hopkins .
he carries some creature about with him in that box about which the landlady seemed to be in considerable trepidation , for she had never seen an animal like it .
i already feel it closing in upon me .
it was a considerable sum , for people in their position , and the loss of it would have made a serious difference .
all the time that she was telling me this story she never once looked in my direction , and her voice was quite unlike her usual tones .
i repeat that the lady is his wife and not his sister .
this is one he left the first morning daily gazette .
i was shocked by the change which had come over him , for his face which was naturally of a broad and massive mould , was now pinched and fallen in , while his hair seemed to me at least a shade whiter .
in the scuffle , your son struck sir george and cut him over the eye .
it was the sides which were black .
male costume is nothing new to me .
i will take this photograph of blessington , which i see upon the mantelpiece , as it may help me in my inquiries .
and then the incident of the grey cloth seen by young mccarthy .
what do you make of it ?
this is it .
stanley hopkins and i stared in amazement .
he had it and he imagined that i would have it , too .
as the drag drew up in the enclosure near the grand stand i glanced at the card to see the entries .
yes he has followed my father 's custom .
now , of the two men , it is clear that the one who wrote the ' at ' and ' to ' was the ringleader .
is birdy edwards here ?
no he is not a man that it is easy to draw out , though he can be communicative enough when the fancy seizes him .
the gale had blown itself out next day , but it was a bitter morning when we started upon our journey .
as we left the room , we heard his pen travelling shrilly over the foolscap .
this man strikes even deeper , but i think , watson , that we shall be able to strike deeper still .
lestrade , lean and ferret like as ever , was standing by the doorway , and greeted my companion and myself .
for we have our own police of the township , and no need for any imported goods .
as he spoke there was the sharp sound of horses ' hoofs and grating wheels against the curb , followed by a sharp pull at the bell .
a joke , was it ?
the lamp , which was an ordinary standard , he examined with minute care , making certain measurements upon its bowl .
and be laughed at for my pains .
i do n't know who you are ,
our next obvious step is to check , so far as we can , the movements of mortimer tregennis after he left the room .
but how came the window to be shut and fastened ?
he observed , taking up a glowing cinder with the tongs and lighting with it the long cherry wood pipe which was wont to replace his clay when he was in a disputatious rather than a meditative mood
i should like to see him clapped down in a third class carriage on the underground , and asked to give the trades of all his fellow travellers .
i have heard the name .
we could trace no footmarks below , but it is sure that this is the only possible exit .
he was still standing in the door way , the very picture of terror , wringing his hands and moaning to himself .
james was a bonehead i give you that .
brunton had not been at work here .
john rance sprang to his feet with a frightened face and suspicion in his eyes .
oh , john , john , have i brought you to this ?
a top hat , well brushed and trim , was placed upon the floor beside him .
it does .
yet , if his emotions were dulled , his intellectual perceptions were exceedingly active .
he drew out a lens and lay down upon his waterproof to have a better view , talking all the time rather to himself than to us .
my submission pleased him and led him to further confidences .
irene adler , as i will still call her , had hurried up the steps but she stood at the top with her superb figure outlined against the lights of the hall , looking back into the street .
halloa , halloa !
it 's a very pretty diversity of opinion .
if it were not that he fears you , what do you suppose our chances would be ?
there was a thick fog , and nothing could be seen .
every inquiry in this case reveals something inexplicable .
you are to watch me , for i will be visible to you .
he loved to lie in the very center of five millions of people , with his filaments stretching out and running through them , responsive to every little rumour or suspicion of unsolved crime .
it sounds plausible , does it not ?
i rejoice , however , to perceive that he wrote with a broad pointed quill pen , and i can hardly doubt that we will find some impression upon this blotting pad .
he rushed fiercely forward , and the inquirer flitted away into the darkness .
the other was a little , fat , round fellow , with a great yellow turban , and a bundle in his hand , done up in a shawl .
why , the height of a man , in nine cases out of ten , can be told from the length of his stride .
this man , lucas , furnished a duplicate .
well , i do n't know why not ,
is why they should have spared you when they found you lying fainting in the garden .
only that the papers were in the back drawer of the japanese cabinet .
but this rascal ?
and anyone else ?
it is a dangerous habit to finger loaded firearms in the pocket of one 's dressing gown .
it 's a lesson to you that you can n't deceive me , constable macpherson ,
they could not have taken that to their lodgings .
why , then , does he make these long journeys , which must be exceedingly irksome to him , and who is it that he visits ?
he is a quiet , inscrutable fellow as most of those indians are .
money 's not everything .
however , doctor , i need not warn you to be careful .
thank you .
the bullet had been fired at him from the front , and had remained in his body , after penetrating the heart .
what of it ?
an arrest ?
no , i could n't do it , watson ,
as to money , well , so far as a fiver or even a tenner goes you can always look to me .
he had lit his pipe and held his slippered feet to the cheerful blaze of the fire .
have you ever had an alarm like this before ?
lord st .
the work to a man of my temperament was mechanical and uninteresting , but the privilege of living with youth , of helping to mould those young minds , and of impressing them with one 's own character and ideals was very dear to me .
besides , as the bridge was up , there was no other possible way of escaping .
cried ferrier
however , it is not for me to cause the frail thread to be snapped before god 's time .
underneath is written in a hand so shaky as to be hardly legible , ' beddoes writes in cipher to say h .
the resident patient
oh , tut , tut !
we can dismiss the idea .
we heard her reiterated rejoicings until the door was closed and her voice died away into a muffled monotone .
signals ?
he has little time , for he has heard the scuffle downstairs when the wife tried to force her way up , and perhaps he has already heard from his lascar confederate that the police are hurrying up the street .
but why are you not conducting the case from baker street ?
on the strength of it he won the mathematical chair at one of our smaller universities , and had , to all appearances , a most brilliant career before him .
how was that ?
no , no , jack !
milverton relapsed into his chair .
that is the letter which i have just received , mr holmes , and my mind is made up that i will accept it .
i am very much indebted to you , dr mortimer , for introducing me to a problem which presents several interesting alternatives .
but , none the less , my turn that way is in my veins , and may have come with my grandmother , who was the sister of vernet , the french artist .
you appear to take it for granted that , although the door was forced , the robber never got in .
my duty ends when i have returned the lost letter to your husband .
you need not fear to speak the truth .
what does he mean by using a shotgun when silence was his one chance of escape ?
he is deeply interested in south african gold shares .
that 's how i come to know the name .
to eat it !
as well as i could learn , miss alice had rights of her own by will , but she was so quiet and patient , she was , that she never said a word about them but just left everything in mr rucastle 's hands .
and it was to be used for a delicate operation that night .
i am a newcomer , as you know , and i am strange to it all .
he took a small piece of torn paper from a note book and spread it out upon his knee .
it came , however , more quickly than we expected , and in this way .
this is very piquant .
i know ,
the duke fell back in his chair .
my surmise , as you saw , proved to be correct ,
i regret that i have kept you waiting ,
this looks like one of those unwelcome social summonses which call upon a man either to be bored or to lie .
no , it 's not quite so bad as that .
she glanced at them , and then looked up at us with the set , rigid face of a desperate woman .
tiger cormac laughed horribly , and boss mcginty clapped his great hand across his mouth .
no , we can do nothing .
i am sorry to hear you say that .
and what is your theory of this poor fellow 's death ?
do you know how he died ?
it all seems to centre round that bust of napoleon which i bought for this very room about four months ago .
major sholto denies having heard that he was in london .
little could the first pioneer who had traversed it have ever imagined that the fairest prairies and the most lush water pastures were valueless compared to this gloomy land of black crag and tangled forest .
there could be no doubt that we had reached the end of our journey .
they have been identified as her clothes , and it seemed to me that if the clothes were there the body would not be far off .
are those ordinary pills ?
but he merely drew out a memorandum book in which he had scribbled some dates .
my god , what 's that , watson ?
my name is sherlock holmes .
anyhow , they had come there during the night .
a litter of empty tins showed that the place had been occupied for some time , and i saw , as my eyes became accustomed to the checkered light , a pannikin and a half full bottle of spirits standing in the corner .
our blinds were half drawn , and holmes lay curled upon the sofa , reading and re reading a letter which he had received by the morning post .
the butler entered .
i should not have thought you had a nerve in your body .
our whole scheme might seem fantastic if laid before a magistrate .
she was so frightened by their violence that she ran away and told her mother when she reached home that she had left the two mccarthys quarrelling near boscombe pool , and that she was afraid that they were going to fight .
what do you say , watson ?
there was nothing soft about our british hosts on that occasion , i can assure you .
good morning , mr holmes ,
oh , i have heard of that fellow ,
and now , dr huxtable , when you have consumed that milk , you will kindly tell me what has happened , when it happened , how it happened , and , finally , what dr thorneycroft huxtable , of the priory school , near mackleton , has to do with the matter , and why he comes three days after an event the state of your chin gives the date to ask for my humble services .
you will appreciate that , mr sherlock holmes , for we are both brain workers .
i endeavored to cheer and amuse her by reminiscences of my adventures in afghanistan but , to tell the truth , i was myself so excited at our situation and so curious as to our destination that my stories were slightly involved .
well , you need a word as well as a set of figures before you can get the lock to work .
you must lock yourself up from him to night .
you do n't say so ?
i saw the american stamp .
none whatever .
it sounds like a sum in the rule of three .
i alone know the absolute truth of the matter , and i am satisfied that the time has come when no good purpose is to be served by its suppression .
i think you want a little unofficial help .
the smallest point may be the most essential .
i take it that you have no theory yourself which can in any way account for them ?
old woman be damned !
it must have been to tell her that the deed was done !
an outbreak of the disease upon his plantation , which was distant from medical aid , caused him to study it himself , with some rather far reaching consequences .
that our wooden legged friend , though a fair climber , was not a professional sailor .
what about the wineglasses ?
here he kennelled it and waited his chance .
god forbid !
there was a bustle outside , and mrs hudson opened the door to usher in two robust and official looking individuals , one of whom was well known to us as inspector gregson of scotland yard , an energetic , gallant , and , within his limitations , a capable officer .
she would never bring any stain upon it of that i am sure .
he examined them carefully with his lens , and then some dim and vague marks upon the earth beneath .
if you can come round to the house any time before twelve , you will find me there .
well , well , it 's just how you look at it .
so like was the face to that of our little friend that i looked round at him to make sure that he was indeed with us .
was it the thief who did it out of bravado ?
obviously something had occurred during the morning , then , to cause her to change her mind .
of course this acton business has put every one on their guard .
no , no , do n't call it a pose .
that was the name , style , and abode of my morning visitor .
that 's enough .
but every second night we made sure if he was still there by putting a light in the window , and if there was an answer my husband took out some bread and meat to him .
the fact that the candle had been lit only a short time shows that there had been no lengthy interview .
it was his specialty to be accurate as to fact , but his recent illness had shaken him , and this one little incident was enough to show me that he was still far from being himself .
pray let me have the details .
jump up here .
then the tall , lean figure inclined towards me .
on another occasion , as drebber passed under a cliff a great boulder crashed down on him , and he only escaped a terrible death by throwing himself upon his face .
a study of family portraits is enough to convert a man to the doctrine of reincarnation .
these prison chaps had done little else than play cards ever since they had been at the andamans , and they knew each other 's game to a point , while the others just played to pass the time and threw their cards down anyhow .
his younger brother is a station master in the west of england .
can you tell me where i am ?
there are really some very unique features about this case , watson ,
she wheeled her mustang round , gave it a cut with her riding whip , and darted away down the broad road in a rolling cloud of dust .
she cried , glancing from one to the other of us , and finally , with a woman 's quick intuition , fastening upon my companion ,
they are very hospitable people , and i am sure that they would be very glad to see you .
i turned in uncontrollable astonishment .
now , doctor , you are looking done up .
just as you wish .
i never gave a thought to my toilet .
tell me ,
as he will all the nations in his own good time ,
so , watson ,
it may have been a box .
you 've no idea the harm that it did me .
holmes ,
since mr douglas has spent most of his life in america , and this shotgun seems to be an american weapon , it would seem that the private grudge is the more likely theory .
you mean that someone waded across the moat ?
i will come with you at once .
though reserved in its earlier vocabulary , it becomes , if i remember right , quite garrulous towards the end .
then dr watson and i will come round in time .
the other is that it has been engineered by moriarty in the ordinary course of business .
and now i 'll be too late with a murder done on my own doorstep .
we will come to the bicycle presently .
my sister julia and i were twins , and we were only two years old at the time of my mother 's re marriage .
the footfall was an uncertain and shuffling one .
however , that is for a british jury to decide .
he is dark , handsome , and dashing , never calls less than once a day , and often twice .
of course !
cross examined by the clever attorney who had been engaged by mcginty , they were even more nebulous in their evidence .
there was another hand to be played , and yet another and another .
the fury upon his face was terrible to look at .
the fact is that i am a little upset , and you must put it all down to that .
it had been too far from me for that .
cried baldwin in a fury .
will you ruin your life and my own for the sake of this promise ?
i will tell you , then , what occurred in your house last night .
it was locked , but the key had been left on the outside .
and yet , by the lord !
quite so .
it was only early in the morning or late at night that i could earn anything , so that i began to get behind hand with my employer .
no , sir , but it might very well come from someone who was convinced that the business is supernatural .
the fat man cast his eyes round , and then up at the open skylight .
however , that 's past praying for now .
yes , it is , ted baldwin ,
the man , who has some work which he must do , desires to leave the woman in absolute safety while he does it .
does anyone else know of this ?
it is very much the sort of thing that i expected ,
it was , then , with considerable surprise that i received a telegram from holmes last tuesday he has never been known to write where a telegram would serve in the following terms :
strong , fearless , and energetic , he had sufficient virtue to enable him to impose his odious vices upon a cowering people for ten or twelve years .
she is more like a ghost than a woman .
excuse me if i allude to that which is painful to you , but i have no alternative .
you will see it there beside the path .
he is steady and methodical .
i see him every day through my telescope upon the roof .
from below the two glowing ends of their cigars might have been the smouldering eyes of some malignant fiend looking down in the darkness .
arsenal technical papers brother mycroft , the chain is complete .
not a word of what i have said .
it 's a very cheery thing to come into london by any of these lines which run high , and allow you to look down upon the houses like this .
let him be my master elsewhere , i at least was his in a sick room .
how 's that , watson ?
exactly .
no , sir , nothing .
he also received his dismissal , his half sovereign , and the order to wait .
so did i , but i got in three carriages behind them .
a fan , a glove , glasses who knows what article may be carried as a token or treasured when a man puts an end to his life ?
anyhow , i can n't leave here myself until i am relieved .
by chance , however , the first boot which was procured for him was a new one and , therefore , useless for his purpose .
somewhere there , on that desolate plain , was lurking this fiendish man , hiding in a burrow like a wild beast , his heart full of malignancy against the whole race which had cast him out .
then , again , whom was he waiting for that night , and why was he waiting for him in the yew alley rather than in his own house ?
fool that i was to hold my hand .
and of course this is all quite a minor point compared to the question of who killed john straker .
i have not moved it since the day i was married , and it would have taken a file to get it off .
you observe that the part struck was that which would be turned towards the hole in the ceiling if the man were erect in his chair .
without a word he grasped my arm and hurried me into a carriage , the door of which was standing open .
describe it .
, glass sherry , d .
his aversion to women and his disinclination to form new friendships were both typical of his unemotional character , but not more so than his complete suppression of every reference to his own people .
there was no change of expression in the rugged features of the doctor .
i looked through and was conscious of two glowing eyes , and of a vague figure huddled up in the darkness .
she knows that the king is capable of having her waylaid and searched .
so one would imagine .
it had wandered on to the moor and had never come back .
but why were you doing this ?
that 's all there ,
i am nearly mad .
the cries , which had sunk down into a hoarse , inarticulate shouting , came from the room which we had first visited .
i do n't like it , holmes .
any information which mr wilder or i can give you is , of course , at your disposal .
it was nearly eleven o'clock when we reached this final stage of our night 's adventures .
i rose to go , but holmes caught me by the wrist and pushed me back into my chair .
that is very bad !
he seized me by the coat sleeve in his eagerness , and drew me over to the table at which he had been working .
what does it suggest ?
i would pay ten .
again , carbolic or rectified spirits would be the preservatives which would suggest themselves to the medical mind , certainly not rough salt .
well , what happened ?
the young men nodded in surly fashion to each other .
nor was the fear entirely an illusion , for the barren valley was thickly strewn with trees and boulders which had fallen in a similar manner .
yes , sir
frank had been a prisoner among the apaches , had escaped , came on to ' frisco , found that i had given him up for dead and had gone to england , followed me there , and had come upon me at last on the very morning of my second wedding .
it seldom was but he was glad , i think , to see me .
you have been cruelly used ,
it has been a duel between you and me , mr holmes .
of what nature are they ?
mr holmes talks of signals ,
the man in the road was undoubtedly some friend of hers possibly her fianc and no doubt , as you wore the girl 's dress and were so like her , he was convinced from your laughter , whenever he saw you , and afterwards from your gesture , that miss rucastle was perfectly happy , and that she no longer desired his attentions .
it 's worth trying , watson ,
i think i would risk a little sporting flutter that you do n't go there at all .
our friend will n't keep us out in the cold now , i am sure .
i imagined that all was for my own sake .
just this , mister , that i should advise you to be careful in choosing your friends .
for christ 's sake keep him out !
my only fear was that this thing in my chest might burst a little too soon and leave my work undone .
he dashed her to one side , and , rushing to the window , cut at me with his heavy weapon .
mcmurdo 's face fell .
the drawers , it seems , were always open , and nothing of value was kept in them .
he murmured .
about or he came back to europe and took a small estate in sussex , near horsham .
i have just been thinking so ,
i felt , however , that when whitney was once confined in the cab my mission was practically accomplished and for the rest , i could not wish anything better than to be associated with my friend in one of those singular adventures which were the normal condition of his existence .
there 's business here that wants a solomon in judgment to set it right .
clair and swore that the presence of the clothes in his room was as much a mystery to him as to the police .
i cannot admire his taste ,
just as you like , mr holmes .
holmes shook his head gravely .
gone where ?
then came rows of two storied villas each with a fronting of miniature garden , and then again interminable lines of new staring brick buildings , the monster tentacles which the giant city was throwing out into the country .
how dare you touch that coronet ?
a single flash that is a , surely .
again , an official inquiry could not be made without bringing out some facts about the treasure , which i was particularly anxious to keep secret .
there can be no doubt that this fellow must have known the house and its habits .
it was short and concise :
it was a delicate part which i had to play then , for i saw that a prosecution must be avoided to avert scandal , and i knew that so astute a villain would see that our hands were tied in the matter .
well , you are master of the situation .
it is almost a facsimile .
the six horses were so close together that a carpet could have covered them , but half way up the yellow of the mapleton stable showed to the front .
top on it ?
he cried .
i glanced at my morning paper .
i observe from your forefinger that you make your own cigarettes .
his bedroom candle was burning on the table .
they 've taken his wedding ring !
what 's the meaning of this ?
that is a bad sign .
surely there are details in her story which , if we looked at in cold blood , would excite our suspicion .
man 's thumb mark on corner , probably postman .
perfectly .
the boarding house keeper instinctively sank his voice , as everyone did who talked about that terrible society .
the young man who had first given the alarm was leading them .
it is unlikely that a youngster like adair would at once make a hideous scandal by exposing a well known man so much older than himself .
having finished their work they made off , and the door was barred behind them by their confederate .
she died just two years ago , and it is of her death that i wish to speak to you .
between ourselves there are pretty clear signs that this will not be wanting if the lady is willing , for i have seldom seen a man more infatuated with a woman than he is with our beautiful neighbour , miss stapleton .
but i have had a very serious accident during the night .
in height he was rather over six feet , and so excessively lean that he seemed to be considerably taller .
what next ?
why that ?
that 's the best i can do for you ,
by george , it 's marvellous !
now , where was the other end ?
the greedy rogue .
there is my card , sir , and if my evidence can be of help in your trial , it shall be at your disposal .
but what do you gather from it ?
i might or i might not .
the horse !
i am fairly familiar with all forms of secret writings , and am myself the author of a trifling monograph upon the subject , in which i analyze one hundred and sixty separate ciphers , but i confess that this is entirely new to me .
for a long time he remained there , turning over the leaves and dried sticks , gathering up what seemed to me to be dust into an envelope and examining with his lens not only the ground but even the bark of the tree as far as he could reach .
i learned at the british museum that he was a recognized authority upon the subject , and that the name of vandeleur has been permanently attached to a certain moth which he had , in his yorkshire days , been the first to describe .
there was no mistaking the poise of the head , the squareness of the shoulders , the sharpness of the features .
with a shrill cry of anger a man rose from a reclining chair beside the fire .
yes , yes i see the fall of the cards .
at last in the stress of her fear she did that which might have daunted the bravest or most active man , for by the aid of the growth of ivy which covered and still covers the south wall she came down from under the eaves , and so homeward across the moor , there being three leagues betwixt the hall and her father 's farm .
i cannot possibly leave until i have seen the machine .
could you go as far as aldershot to morrow ?
white mason gazed at my friend as the little village practitioner looks at the harley street specialist who by a word can solve the difficulties that perplex him .
as i descended , my old ally , the guard , came out of the room and closed the door tightly behind him .
there was one about three miles off .
then suddenly he hauled something in as a fisherman lands a fish some large , round object which obscured the light as it was dragged through the open casement .
i am quite sure that a man of your intelligence will see that there can be but one outcome to this affair .
is it hard to know ?
that is his main fault , but on the whole he 's a good worker .
wire if unable to come .
i think that you know me well enough , watson , to understand that i am by no means a nervous man .
but it 's over for me , and i bear no grudge .
cinnamon jacket .
ejaculated phelps .
you bear him no good will , madam ,
dr mortimer here went round with me .
the lodge has a long arm .
i hurried at once to the garden , mad that he should slip out of my clutches like that , and , looking through the window , i saw him lying in his bed , with his sons on each side of him .
i was conscious of a dull pain , my grip loosened , and i fell into the garden below .
has told all .
oh , yes .
why did you come to me ,
but within a year at the furthest we will leave the valley behind us .
the ruffian woodley was a very different person , but , except on one occasion , he had not molested our client , and now he visited the house of carruthers without intruding upon her presence .
my name is john robinson ,
what do you wish me to do ?
but this is nothing nothing !
it 's no wonder my uncle felt as if trouble were coming on him in such a place as this ,
the state room was next the cabin , and we flocked in there and flopped down on the settees , all speaking together , for we were just mad with the feeling that we were free once more .
i received this cable from mrs douglas this morning :
croaked a voice behind us .
this case certainly presents some features of its own ,
inspector bradstreet would , i am sure , make notes upon anything which you might tell us and submit it to the proper authorities .
a four wheeler was at the door at eleven , and in it we drove to a spot at the other side of hammersmith bridge .
at the very first whiff of it my brain and my imagination were beyond all control .
now that i come to think of it , dr barnicot 's bust was broken not far from his red lamp .
the whole party proceeded afterwards to the house of mr aloysius doran , at lancaster gate , where breakfast had been prepared .
holmes stooped over it .
if on that forbidding moor a difficult and dangerous quest should lie before us , this was at least a comrade for whom one might venture to take a risk with the certainty that he would bravely share it .
everything prospered in the strange settlement .
with a grave face he lit the lamp and led the way down the corridor .
who are you ?
on that evening the horses had been exercised and watered as usual , and the stables were locked up at nine o'clock .
all evening , though i tried to think of other things , my mind would still turn to the apparition at the window and the rudeness of the woman .
never have i risen to such a height , and never have i been so hard pressed by an opponent .
tell him to warn mr cecil barker , mrs douglas , and the housekeeper that we may want a word with them presently .
do you think that was done last night ?
i measured out the distance , which brought me almost to the wall of the house , and i thrust a peg into the spot .
my dear holmes !
when the carriage came out i followed it to the station .
the butler of hurlstone is always a thing that is remembered by all who visit us .
well , i was pretty proud at having this small command given me , since i was a raw recruit , and a game legged one at that .
i had hardly finished when holmes returned with the news that the boy was putting in the horse .
the man next to me , upon the aft side , was one whom i had particularly noticed when we were led down the quay .
sherlock holmes and i walked together to the high street , where we stopped at the shop of harding brothers , whence the bust had been purchased .
of an evening when they gathered together his joke was always the readiest , his conversation the brightest , and his song the best .
i have always had the key on my watch chain .
i did n't understand that there was any relation between you .
as it burned it filled the air with a subtle and aromatic odor .
i was wired for at : , reached yoxley old place at , conducted my investigation , was back at charing cross by the last train , and straight to you by cab .
being an absolutely selfish man , when a chance presented itself he did not allow either his sister 's happiness or your reputation to hold his hand .
yes david strayed a little occasionally , you know , and on one occasion in the same direction as sergeant james barclay .
the man whom we had known as douglas turned up his own coat and cuff to show a brown triangle within a circle exactly like that which we had seen upon the dead man .
he stood in the centre of the room , fumbling nervously with his hat and uncertain what to do .
i have written to lestrade asking him to supply us with the details which are now wanting , and which he will only get after he had secured his man .
in vain they struggled .
i owe you an apology ,
before i got down the stair , i 'd have seen anyone in the passage .
you must not be later ,
that is just my point .
it is dated from grosvenor mansions , written with a quill pen , and the noble lord has had the misfortune to get a smear of ink upon the outer side of his right little finger ,
our friend upon the sofa has assured me that it is from franz josef 's special cellar at the schoenbrunn palace .
he has used this hotel for many years , and he is very well known to us .
there were some most singular points about the man .
it is in this letter which has come into my hands ,
perhaps some day you will do me justice .
and yet i confess that i 'd like to give them a complete case when they come .
for god 's sake , do n't jack !
the very horror of my situation lies in the fact that my fears are so vague , and my suspicions depend so entirely upon small points , which might seem trivial to another , that even he to whom of all others i have a right to look for help and advice looks upon all that i tell him about it as the fancies of a nervous woman .
i always thought him sane enough until today , but you can take it from me that either he or i ought to be in a straitjacket .
it seems that william had secretly followed his two masters on the night when they made their raid upon mr acton 's , and having thus got them into his power , proceeded , under threats of exposure , to levy blackmail upon them .
you will see a weasel holding a young rabbit in the window .
who opened the door ?
holmes laid his hand upon him and held it up again with an exclamation of horror .
very clearly .
i was only waiting for this .
i wrote to the duchess this morning .
and how would you describe mr sherlock holmes ?
but a human body is a different matter .
he and his secretary , mr stangerson , had been travelling on the continent .
this he made up into a bundle , and , tired as he was , he set himself to walk back through the mountains upon the track of the avenging angels .
it is true that i have been generally successful .
the east had been gradually whitening , and we could now see some distance in the cold gray light .
i do n't think i could have done it in cold blood .
and why ?
nor should i , but we are bound to take every possibility into account .
he , without a moment 's warning , was bundled out of his room , and from that time onward there were always at least two of you there to prevent him from regaining his treasure .
his hair and beard were white , save that the latter was curiously stained with yellow around his mouth .
nothing of value .
i am for west ,
it was nightfall before inspector macdonald and white mason came back from their expedition , and they arrived exultant , reporting a great advance in our investigation .
if you please , miss stoper .
he was leaning far back in the red leather chair , his legs outstretched , a long , black cigar projecting at an angle from his mouth .
you see that i am weaving my web round thaddeus .
i was consulted last week by francois le villard , who , as you probably know , has come rather to the front lately in the french detective service .
you have done well , sir , from first to last ,
i set the idea aside as one which could be disproved or confirmed at our leisure .
good , watson , very good but quite inadmissable .
there was half an ounce of strong ship 's tobacco in it .
and the work ?
we heard it , but we could not prove that it was running upon this man 's trail .
an unsuccessful lover might have killed mr and mrs browner , and the male ear might have belonged to the husband .
i 'll serve you !
his appearance had changed for the worse during the few hours that i had been with him .
i understand ,
then your eyes fixed themselves upon your newly framed picture of general gordon , and i saw by the alteration in your face that a train of thought had been started .
he possesses two out of the three qualities necessary for the ideal detective .
i 've done my work now , and i do n't care how soon i go , but i should like to leave some account of the business behind me .
what did you tell him , then ?
we took toby round to each in turn , but , though he sniffed earnestly , he made no sign .
with making away with mr neville st .
two or three minutes .
very likely not .
i took the poison before i left my hiding place .
boats to hire by the hour or day .
that the dead man 's wedding ring has been taken from his finger ?
cornelius might be a broker , but we have found no scrip to correspond with these large payments .
do none suggest themselves ?
you fiend !
that was six years ago ?
you are quick at identification ,
quite so , of course ,
no , i do n't think you would guess .
the bottle was full of it , and it is inconceivable that the first two glasses were clear and the third heavily charged with it .
still , jealousy is a strange transformer of characters .
he slept on the premises .
and now i beg that you will go .
a woman of spanish blood does not condone such an injury so lightly .
i listen to their story , they listen to my comments , and then i pocket my fee .
you have instinct and intuition ,
i have no idea , said i .
i stepped back , but the fellow was on me in an instant .
my friend bowed his compliments .
no doubt that is true , and yet they drank some wine , i understand .
she has a puckered forehead , a peering expression , and probably rounded shoulders .
cushing .
what happened after that is like some fearful dream .
i fear him for myself but above all i fear him for father .
you remember me .
inspector baynes , who , with his usual astuteness , had minimized the incident before me , had really recognized its importance and had left a trap into which the creature walked .
you 'll be surprised to hear that his food is taken to him by a child .
you are an educated man .
it appears to be normal ,
my name is john ferrier ,
i recognized in an instant that the thief must have come up the stairs from the side door .
the fact was that i had just seen something which filled me with surprise and at the same time narrowed the field of our inquiry immensely .
if ever he gets out alive well , he can talk of birdy edwards 's luck for the rest of his days !
inspector bradstreet , sir
i tell you straight , sir , i do n't feel easy in my mind about it .
you will now be present at the last scene of a remarkable little drama .
now , mr wilson ?
it can only be as believers in our own creed .
god help me !
you cannot have forgotten the singular knife which was found in the dead man 's hand , a knife which certainly no sane man would choose for a weapon .
where is the justice that i should give it up to those who have never earned it ?
he was a bachelor , you say ?
it is a sacrilege , a crime , a villainy to hold that such a marriage is binding .
oh , it may be a mere fancy of mine but it had seemed to me sometimes that my employer , mr carruthers , takes a great deal of interest in me .
altogether , look as i would , there was nothing remarkable about the man save his blazing red head , and the expression of extreme chagrin and discontent upon his features .
you are here for a rest , my dear fellow .
a considerable crime is in contemplation .
now we shall go upstairs ,
it was a country of rolling moors , lonely and dun colored , with an occasional church tower to mark the site of some old world village .
holmes ,
a bath at baker street and a complete change freshened me up wonderfully .
why should i slink away without having carried out my commission , and without the payment which was my due ?
he added .
well , you are quite right .
i sprang to my feet , my inert hand grasping my pistol , my mind paralyzed by the dreadful shape which had sprung out upon us from the shadows of the fog .
he observed .
all right , mrs hudson .
you noticed , of course , that his boots had been resoled .
by thunder , you 're right !
no , she is not conscious .
meanwhile we can thank our lucky fate which has rescued us for a few short hours from the insufferable fatigues of idleness .
this was an unexpected obstacle .
i tell you i 've not shut an eye in sleep since i did it , and i do n't believe i ever will again until i get past all waking .
seven in .
the man 's sleeve had slipped up and there was the branded mark of the lodge upon his forearm .
as to his remark about his deserts , it was also not unnatural if you consider that he stood beside the dead body of his father , and that there is no doubt that he had that very day so far forgotten his filial duty as to bandy words with him , and even , according to the little girl whose evidence is so important , to raise his hand as if to strike him .
pray what is your own theory as to what took place ?
well , gentlemen , you have the drop on me this time .
anyhow , i 'm not ashamed to say that it is a deal too thick for the likes of me .
he returned in a few seconds enveloped in an ulster and a cravat .
i will now cut one of these pills in two ,
i will bring him in a cab , if i have to carry him down to it .
for this purpose they probably lowered the bridge , which can be done quite noiselessly , and then raised it again .
toller , for that is his name , is a rough , uncouth man , with grizzled hair and whiskers , and a perpetual smell of drink .
one , with a long pale face , was leaning back in the rocking chair , with his feet cocked up upon the stove .
his companion !
scanlan , his original acquaintance aboard the train , had occasion shortly afterwards to move into vermissa , and the two lodged together .
it is all right .
i handed him over the watch with some slight feeling of amusement in my heart , for the test was , as i thought , an impossible one , and i intended it as a lesson against the somewhat dogmatic tone which he occasionally assumed .
ah , indeed !
i repeat that there is no practical joke here , but that we are investigating a serious crime .
ku klux klan .
your statement is most interesting ,
there is a job to be done on andrew rae of rae sturmash , coal owners near this place .
twenty or thirty .
you made me lose a good night 's rest , my dear .
he cried , with his hands to his temples .
his hairiness was the one point which impressed itself upon thaddeus sholto when he saw him at the window .
so estimable a young man !
ah , ettie , i could n't do that .
mind you , from first to last i have done nothing to be ashamed of , and nothing that i would not do again but you 'll judge that for yourselves when i tell you my story .
this one acted as your engager , and then found that he could not find you an employer without admitting a third person into his plot .
that gives you an idea of moriarty 's gains and of the scale on which he works .
or , again , there was that most grotesque affair of the five orange pips , which led straight to a murderous conspiracy .
and where did he say that he lived ?
sometimes i think that i am myself .
that is unthinkable .
i told you that i had a store in the east before i came here .
did you see miss doran on the day before the wedding ?
but alas that work so well organized and boldly carried out should all have gone for nothing !
his father was the notorious sir jabez gilchrist , who ruined himself on the turf .
she breathed heavily , but was incapable of saying anything .
it is founded upon the observation of trifles .
we found
on the tuesday , peter carey was in one of his blackest moods , flushed with drink and as savage as a dangerous wild beast .
it is an ordinary plumber 's smoke rocket , fitted with a cap at either end to make it self lighting .
here is the key .
it means that i can make neither head nor tail of it .
by the window there .
there is only one lamp in it , upon the left hand side , and as we approached this lamp i saw a man coming towards us with his back very bent , and something like a box slung over one of his shoulders .
i will do nothing of the kind .
it came by the last post ,
pity we did n't take the other alive but there was no choice .
and now i pass on to another thread which i have extricated out of the tangled skein , the mystery of the sobs in the night , of the tear stained face of mrs barrymore , of the secret journey of the butler to the western lattice window .
too little , if he could not invent a cause of quarrel which would give him the sympathy of the jury too much , if he evolved from his own inner consciousness anything so outr as a dying reference to a rat , and the incident of the vanishing cloth .
it is a curious thing ,
and here is the cottage which i am going to enter .
now , after thirteen years , i will give the true details of this inconceivable affair to the public .
excellent !
the sundial in the garden .
i gave him directions to have several gourds of water and a lot of yams , cocoa nuts , and sweet potatoes .
at this point i agreed with you that it was preposterous and was glad to find that all my deductions had been correct .
it was a tall order , that but as the bridge was up there was no other way .
stanley hopkins led us first to the house , where he introduced us to a haggard , gray haired woman , the widow of the murdered man , whose gaunt and deep lined face , with the furtive look of terror in the depths of her red rimmed eyes , told of the years of hardship and ill usage which she had endured .
it has a girth of twenty three feet .
the matter was entirely beyond coincidence .
the clouds are heavy ,
an accident ?
i fear it is rather too late an hour for explanations ,
but , i say ,
but i expect if we could lay our hands upon that lady we should know more about sir charles 's death .
he is the only flaw in that chain so far as i have been able to test it .
he is a professional brother of yours , and your presence may be of assistance to me .
mr mcfarlane had left his hat , and to the best of her belief his stick , in the hall .
the opium was added after the dish was set aside for the stable boy , for the others had the same for supper with no ill effects .
i really do not feel equal to giving directions .
young men have their hidden troubles some affair of the heart , perhaps , which we have never known .
i was a young chap then , hot blooded and reckless , ready to turn my hand at anything i got among bad companions , took to drink , had no luck with my claim , took to the bush , and in a word became what you would call over here a highway robber .
here 's the end of a long light ladder against the eaves .
his wife !
by the way ,
giuseppe gorgiano how did he
down the dusty high roads defiled long streams of heavily laden mules , all heading to the west , for the gold fever had broken out in california , and the overland route lay through the city of the elect .
mary used to sit up reading in her own little room downstairs .
and rather to jonathan 's disgust , to judge by the way he stamped about when he got into the room .
when we parted she was a free woman , but i could never again be a free man .
variable .
in an instant but it was just one instant too late they resumed their solemn masks as my figure came into view .
i shall see him in my dreams i had just time to blow on my police whistle , and then i must have fainted , for i knew nothing more until i found the policeman standing over me in the hall .
how can mr carruthers endure such a creature for a moment ?
here it is .
he was always well dressed , very neat and plain , but his eyes were weak , just as mine are , and he wore tinted glasses against the glare .
on the contrary , we both go back to london by the night train .
dear me !
travellers for nevada ,
he came down so quietly and openly that the boy imagined him to be some carpenter or joiner at work in the hotel .
when the butler had gone i walked over to the black window , and i looked through a blurred pane at the driving clouds and at the tossing outline of the wind swept trees .
an assassin does not come unarmed .
yours faithfully , leslie armstrong .
then , with your permission , we will leave it at that , mr mac .
first of all your name and address , in case i want you again .
there 's a ring at the bell , watson .
i began to laugh at this , but the laugh was struck from my lips at the sight of his face .
he saw his chance and he took it .
my dear fellow , pray come in .
to get at this , i endeavored first of all to solve the reason of the original burglary at mr acton 's .
the right track !
when i approached , it vanished with a jerk .
he made the announcement as if the name alone would explain both his visit and its manner , but i could see , by my companion 's unresponsive face , that it meant no more to him than to me .
they appear , however , to have quickly adapted themselves , and mrs barclay has always , i understand , been as popular with the ladies of the regiment as her husband was with his brother officers .
i fancy we can attain our end in a simpler way .
well , watson , what do you think of it ?
he always kept his distance and did not molest me in any way , but still it certainly was very odd .
lord backwater 's desborough .
objection no .
in he commanded the steam sealer sea unicorn , of dundee .
four years later sholto dies .
you found some place , i understand , where the fellow scaled the fence .
twice he stopped , and once i saw him smile , and heard him utter an exclamation of satisfaction .
there were indications that sir charles had stood for some little time here .
i did not know about a projected divorce between herself and her husband .
some strychnine like substance which would produce tetanus .
no motive was suggested .
ames , the butler
but how did you gain them ?
you 've been so kind to us , sir , that i should like to do the best i can for you in return .
i was keenly on the alert , therefore , for whatever would bear out this supposition , and i examined the room narrowly for anything in the shape of a hiding place .
and now you must on no account lose another instant .
either the boy was carried off by force or he went of his own free will .
he assured me that i could do nothing .
outside , the stars were shining coldly in a cloudless sky , and the breath of the passers by blew out into smoke like so many pistol shots .
yes , about it .
i 'll tell you what we did as we walk .
we will keep toby , for he may be of use to us yet .
it was very nice and complimentary of you ,
but here also the ministers of justice were waiting .
but it was only for a moment that we were at fault .
he must have misread it .
my stepfather has offered no opposition to the match , and we are to be married in the course of the spring .
the wooden lid was replaced , and the drugget had only just been drawn straight when lestrade 's voice was heard in the passage .
but this is what we really wanted .
how you startled me !
you will find him at , audley court , kennington park gate .
when you entered the room there was only a candle lighted on the table , was there not ?
but trevelyan and i looked at each other in bewilderment .
the house had been untenanted for some years and was threatening to moulder into a picturesque decay when the douglases took possession of it .
enough of this ,
holmes walked in , and i followed him with that subdued feeling at my heart which the presence of death inspires .
how you scared me !
whole weeks would pass , and not one of them go past the garden gate .
that is certain .
well , away we rattled , and never drew rein until we reached the street in question .
it fills up a gap which i had been unable to bridge in this most complex affair .
what a tissue of mysteries and improbabilities the whole thing was !
it was impossible , from that position , to see the fall , but i could see the curving path which winds over the shoulder of the hill and leads to it .
my god , can there be some truth in all these stories ?
when i went down there i found him talking with his son , so i smoked a cigar and waited behind a tree until he should be alone .
where is that friend or enemy now ?
i thought i 'd dodge your british law for i was not sure how i stood under it , and also i saw my chance to throw these hounds once for all off my track .
do you know anything of the commissionnaire ?
i fear that it may be the last investigation in which i shall have the chance of studying your methods .
two of the lads walked up to the trainer 's house , where they had supper in the kitchen , while the third , ned hunter , remained on guard .
my dear , dear son , now that approaching disgrace begins to darken the closing years of my life , i can write with all truth and honesty that it is not the terror of the law , it is not the loss of my position in the county , nor is it my fall in the eyes of all who have known me , which cuts me to the heart but it is the thought that you should come to blush for me you who love me and who have seldom , i hope , had reason to do other than respect me .
my friend insisted upon my accompanying them in their expedition , which i was eager enough to do , for my curiosity and sympathy were deeply stirred by the story to which we had listened .
it 's not a very large affair , and of late years it has not done more than just give me a living .
she had a key of her own .
this puerile feature in a nature which was conspicuously manly had often given rise to comment and conjecture .
a man had waited outside the window someone had brought the gems the deed had been overseen by your son he had pursued the thief had struggled with him they had each tugged at the coronet , their united strength causing injuries which neither alone could have effected .
there has been nothing like this that i can remember .
can you not find the advertisement , mr wilson ?
but before you are through with that ,
but abroad ?
what did i mean by asking questions ?
i have seen death in many forms , but never has it appeared to me in a more fearsome aspect than in that dark grimy apartment , which looked out upon one of the main arteries of suburban london .
he bowed with the look of a man who is utterly crushed , and slunk past me without a word .
points , and a curve .
theresa was as cool as ice , and it was her plot as much as mine .
i very much resent any interruption to my work , dr watson , but this case is certainly exceptional .
may i ask where you live , sir ?
i think that i should prefer to stay here a little and go into one or two questions of detail .
where would be that thrill if i had been as definite as a timetable ?
malingering is a subject upon which i have sometimes thought of writing a monograph .
it was n't all done in an instant , though , for these chairs were all swept over yonder , and he had one in his hand as if he had tried to hold her off with it .
i cannot have the house invaded in this way .
i think , hopkins , that you should lose no time in conveying your prisoner to a place of safety .
holmes thrust his long thin legs out towards the fire and composed himself to listen .
i cannot think .
it 's my hot irish blood , they tell me .
the candle , which was a new one , is not burned more than half an inch .
you will come round with us to the station , mr scott eccles , and let us have your statement in writing .
screamed the little man .
if i read his character right he will devote his whole energies to revenging himself upon me .
you will find it when you return to the hotel .
yes , and they were the best of friends at one time .
i came away baffled and disheartened .
it was not a pleasant business , watson .
if we handle it right , they can never prove the killing ,
but now , dr mortimer , tell me this .
how do you know that ?
but have you told me all ?
well , there is at least a curious coincidence of dates .
can you not make reparation ?
altogether he gave me the impression of a respectable master mariner who had fallen into years and poverty .
gorgiano of the red circle ?
on the evening of the second there came a letter from hilton cubitt .
then i , rather imprudently , wished you good night , and started for the temple to see my husband .
beside him stood a very young man , whom i understood to be wilder , the private secretary .
it may play its part in the trial .
yes , our little place is quite out in the country .
you will be glad to hear ,
grant munro rushed into the lighted room at the top , and we entered at his heels .
did you observe that in life ?
then he struck his leg with his great sunburned hand .
how absurdly simple !
but some amazing experience had disturbed his native composure and left its traces in his bristling hair , his flushed , angry cheeks , and his flurried , excited manner .
but why what 's amiss with the names ?
he 's right ,
in a quarter of an hour , we shall be at your service .
and yet well !
he was a dashing , swaggering chap , smart and curled , who had seen half the world and could talk of what he had seen .
if you will come down to baskerville hall and see me through i 'll never forget it .
my companion sat silent for some time , with his chin upon his hand , lost in thought .
again holmes raved in the air .
here is the statement which was drawn up by my father when he knew that the danger from hudson had become imminent .
this discovery , and the evident confusion which the cripple showed , made the inspector realise that the matter was serious .
what the devil is the meaning of all this ?
i was on my guard all that next day , and never went out into the park .
i 've done enough for one sitting .
the coroner : how was it , then , that he uttered it before he saw you , and before he even knew that you had returned from bristol ?
it is thicker and bolder , as you see .
i confess at these words a shudder passed through me .
i remembered your address , so i made bold to call .
did you ever see a bed fastened like that before ?
and even as they looked the thing tore the throat out of hugo baskerville , on which , as it turned its blazing eyes and dripping jaws upon them , the three shrieked with fear and rode for dear life , still screaming , across the moor .
when my wife and the household left yesterday for flushing they took the less important with them .
it was a cosey , well furnished apartment , with two candles burning upon the table and two upon the mantelpiece .
what does he do ?
that was imprudent .
the manor house , with its many gables and its small diamond paned windows , was still much as the builder had left it in the early seventeenth century .
now , what do you think would happen if i did break it , mr holder ?
i propose to go up there presently .
and yet none was found upon his body .
i want to have a word with this man .
and it is just burning the life out of me .
joseph and the groom found marks on the bed outside the window , but the weather has been so dry lately that they found it hopeless to follow the trail across the grass .
i groaned , for i was newly come back from a weary day .
holmes laughed and threw his card across the table to the constable .
and all the rest of your money in your left trouser pocket .
no hinges at the side .
if i thought you were playing any game on us , it would be short work for you .
we might put on our masks here , i think .
lestrade went after his man , stangerson , and it appears that he was wrong too .
if it concerned no one but myself i would not try to keep it from you .
no , i cannot .
you are the wrong sort for such work .
she had engaged a sitting room , and our lunch awaited us upon the table .
of my mother !
holmes shot out his long , thin arm and picked out volume h in his encyclopaedia of reference .
there was a murmur of assent , with many a muttered oath .
give me a telegraph form .
it added that the case was undoubtedly one of murder , but that no arrest had been made , and that the case was one which presented some very perplexing and extraordinary features .
you have a theory then ?
then they adopted the precaution of never going out alone or after nightfall , and of having their houses guarded .
you have been inside the house , have you not , watson ?
that night he sat up with his gun and kept watch and ward .
quite sure , dad .
what motive could your friend have in going to lord mount james ?
the coroner 's jury brought in the obvious wilful murder , but the parties remained as unknown as ever .
the droning sound swelled louder upon our ears until it became one long , deep wail of distress .
but you can take it from me , gentlemen , if it was my last word , that no man ever had a more loving , faithful wife and i can say also no friend could be more loyal than i !
thirty feet each way .
still , i had to carry out my job , and i came to the coal valleys .
on the contrary , it is solid enough for a man to break his hand over .
he was a dashing , jovial old soldier in his usual mood , but there were occasions on which he seemed to show himself capable of considerable violence and vindictiveness .
the bar loafers crowded round him and shook him heartily by the hand .
there was a sound upon the stairs , and our door was opened to admit as fine a specimen of manhood as ever passed through it .
his grace was extremely desirous to avoid all public scandal .
what did he want always knockin ' about here for ?
i owe you a thousand apologies for having doubted your ability .
i had intended , however , to go the round of the london opticians .
but how do you know that it is hereditary ?
fritz !
there was no one in the corridors , mr holmes .
besides , your supposition that i would bring the letters here in a notebook is entirely mistaken .
and belgium ?
just because they have never heard of it before , they think that such a thing cannot be .
the moor has been thick with them since this fellow escaped .
he had , as it appears , been returning from fareham in the twilight , and as the country was unknown to him , and the chalk pit unfenced , the jury had no hesitation in bringing in a verdict of ' death from accidental causes .
it mentioned that his injuries had been in the head , from the discharge of a shotgun .
mcmurdo nodded towards the policemen and smiled .
he included us all in a sweeping bow and stalked out of the room .
the pay was fair , i had comfortable quarters , and altogether i was content to spend the remainder of my life in indigo planting .
to my amazement , it was neither locked nor bolted .
well , come to bed , and we can discuss it in the morning .
i had nothing against him while he was here .
an instant later the mystery was explained .
suddenly he heard him at the very door .
i know well that i have it in me to make my name famous .
shall i open a flask ?
i am still in the dark .
how is that ?
my limbs were weary and stiff , for i feared to change my position yet my nerves were worked up to the highest pitch of tension , and my hearing was so acute that i could not only hear the gentle breathing of my companions , but i could distinguish the deeper , heavier in breath of the bulky jones from the thin , sighing note of the bank director .
to me , who knew his every mood and habit , his attitude and manner told their own story .
and now i come rapidly to the conclusion of this singular narrative , in which i have tried to make the reader share those dark fears and vague surmises which clouded our lives so long and ended in so tragic a manner .
for goodness ' sake do n't you ever on any pretext set your foot over the threshold at night , for it 's as much as your life is worth .
king 's cross station ,
milverton is a heavy sleeper , and retires punctually at ten thirty .
mrs barclay was , it appears , a member of the roman catholic church , and had interested herself very much in the establishment of the guild of st .
i guess this man would destroy us all if we left him long in the valley .
i think that there is nothing else of importance here , but i will look .
you flatter me , baron .
stooping over her , he pressed his lips reverently to her cold forehead , and then , snatching up her hand , he took the wedding ring from her finger .
i fancy that lord holdhurst for one , and mr percy phelps for another , would very much rather that the affair never got as far as a police court .
my wife had gone to the theatre .
i have it all ready for you .
there was a silence which was broken by sherlock holmes .
then i 'll get behind him and shut it .
it was perfectly obvious from the first that the only possible object of this rather fantastic business of the advertisement of the league , and the copying of the ' encyclopaedia , ' must be to get this not over bright pawnbroker out of the way for a number of hours every day .
undoubtedly .
quite so but the sequel was rather unusual .
my friend rubbed his thin hands together with an appearance of avidity which was a surprise to me , who knew his frugal tastes .
of what ?
none in the world .
you must be weary , for you have had a long day .
how are you , watson ?
then comes :
it is conceivable that the fellow might hold it back to see what bids come from this side before he tries his luck on the other .
moriarty will again do what i should do .
he spoke of giving me up .
was there ever a slaughter house like that ship !
the creature was too unwieldy to lift , so the hunter contented himself with cutting away one haunch and part of the flank .
i presume that it is a very quiet place .
you were travelling in the states ?
how many letters did your grace write that day ?
cried milverton , taking out a bulky pocketbook .
i hope ,
you can tell your friends that we should have been happy to have come with you , but that urgent business required us to be in town .
very good ,
he concealed his fears from his daughter , however , and affected to make light of the whole matter , though she , with the keen eye of love , saw plainly that he was ill at ease .
on the table in front of them were piled a number of letters and telegrams , which they were carefully sorting and docketing .
there was a laurel bush outside the window , and several of the branches bore signs of having been twisted or snapped .
very good .
you have done wisely ,
i cried triumphantly .
then he laid upon the table a long , deadly , sheathed knife .
he was a born boon companion , with a magnetism which drew good humour from all around him .
the men had drawn down their hats and turned up their collars to screen their faces .
now , sir , if a document of this importance were taken at that hour , where can it be now ?
though a wretched rider , he turned out at every meet , and took the most amazing falls in his determination to hold his own with the best .
it was his idea that i was at a loose end , and that he would do me a good turn by offering me a clerkship in a drygoods store .
there is something in common between these hands .
and yet she had some secret sorrow , this woman .
where 's your warrant ?
any one of these stone huts would give him a hiding place .
ready ?
not at all , your grace .
the fact is that there is one really serious flaw in this evidence to which our friend attaches so much importance .
however , i shall very quickly test the matter when i am once upon the spot , and until then i cannot really see how we can get much further than our present position .
cried holmes
if you consider how much creasote is carted about london in one day , it is no great wonder that our trail should have been crossed .
some friend of yours , perhaps ?
what the object of my friend 's manoeuvres was i could not conceive , unless it were to keep the lady away from phelps , who , rejoiced by his returning health and by the prospect of action , lunched with us in the dining room .
but that is no use to us for the moment .
he is the napoleon of crime , watson .
found dead without a mark upon him .
have i not ?
he would naturally have made an appointment with the foreign agent and kept his evening clear .
he was dressed in a sombre yet rich style , in black frock coat , shining hat , neat brown gaiters , and well cut pearl grey trousers .
i should wish nothing better than to have some more of such experiences .
you have only got your deserts .
if he is n't out in a quarter of an hour the path will be covered .
he passes along the same path at the same hour , and to whom should he be going except to the convict ?
but you would not advise me to refuse ?
this gentleman ?
you felt so strongly about it that i knew you could not think of beecher without thinking of that also .
when in your report you said that you had seen the cyclist as you thought arrange his necktie in the shrubbery , that alone should have told me all .
this way , gentlemen , if you please .
there he lay in the hall , and we were at our wit 's end what to do .
his round , ruddy face was naturally full of cheeriness , but the corners of his mouth seemed to me to be pulled down in a half comical distress .
at his invitation we had taken tea at the vicarage and had come to know , also , mr mortimer tregennis , an independent gentleman , who increased the clergyman 's scanty resources by taking rooms in his large , straggling house .
surely the explanation of all this could not be as innocent as she would have me believe .
luckily for me , my company sergeant , john holder , was in the water at the same time , and he was one of the finest swimmers in the service .
milverton 's smile broadened , he shrugged his shoulders removed his overcoat , folded it with great deliberation over the back of a chair , and then took a seat .
my interest is already awakened in the case .
having reached the union house , some of them mixed with the crowd in mcginty 's saloon , whispering across the bar to the boss that the job had been well carried through .
i suppose you know all about it ,
we have him , watson , we have him , and i dare swear that before tomorrow night he will be fluttering in our net as helpless as one of his own butterflies .
what did you do , then ?
i have just found , on consulting the back files of the times , that major sholto , of upper norword , late of the th bombay infantry , died upon the th of april , .
it was pierced by a very small but very deep wound , which had divided the carotid artery .
give him a cigar ,
if he really wants someone to share the rooms and the expense , i am the very man for him .
presently the landlady appeared with the tray , laid it down upon a chair beside the closed door , and then , treading heavily , departed .
unless this is a clever forgery to put us on the wrong scent .
they ascended , then , to mr blessington 's room , the door of which they found to be locked .
presently she emerged from the room again , and in the light of the passage lamp your son saw that she carried the precious coronet in her hands .
our own colours , green and white .
very good , barrymore you can go .
about four feet high .
now , again , it is the noble , chivalrous garcia who has fallen , while the monster goes safe .
the selection of words would hardly lend itself to the sending of general messages .
, from his friends of the c .
i remember .
i observed it as you entered the room ,
his lip had fallen , his eyes were protruding , his skin the colour of putty , and he glared at the envelope which he still held in his trembling hand , ' k .
so much so that they are history .
it was to meet a woman .
i do n't know that watson and i are much the wiser since we came down .
once safe in carson we may rest for the remainder of our lives .
was it some midnight assassin who had come to carry out the murderous orders of the secret tribunal ?
he bellowed like a bull and rushed for the door with all that were left alive at his heels .
it is very pleasant to see the first green shoots upon the hedges and the catkins on the hazels once again .
gloves ,
by the way , that last letter of the dukes was it found in the boy 's room after he was gone ?
the chain of events is certainly one of extraordinary interest .
he cried .
now see here , councillor , i 'll show you my plan and i 'll ask you to fit the others into it .
to think that i should have overlooked you !
this concerns the effect of the atmosphere of the room in each case upon those who had first entered it .
i had a conscience and a religion but they made me a criminal among them .
i sprang out of bed and flung open the shutters .
i looked around me in astonishment .
i answer that it was because i could see his mother 's face in his , and that for her dear sake there was no end to my long suffering .
she would have nothing to do with it , and for a time stapleton was at a deadlock .
this is very interesting .
i am afraid that my colleague has been a little quick in forming his conclusions ,
a match and a cigarette .
it was not holmes 's nature to take an aimless holiday , and something about his pale , worn face told me that his nerves were at their highest tension .
well , on the road itself ?
the ring at the bell proved to be something even more satisfactory than an answer , however , for the door opened and a rough looking fellow entered who was evidently the man himself .
how do you go back ?
in the cottage lay the secret which was casting a shadow over my life .
philosophy , astronomy , and politics were marked at zero , i remember .
this door opens straight into the study .
well , you could n't prove it , anyhow .
deviltry , watson !
it will clear .
i had no difficulty in guessing that it was the cecil barker of whom i had heard .
outside , beyond the low , white fence , a wagonette with a pair of cobs was waiting .
there should be no difficulty about that .
can you give us any idea how long your husband had been downstairs before you heard the shot ?
and he owns a greuze .
very well , sir and this stone ?
surely there is no need of secrecy between you and me .
if she were seventeen at the time of her father 's disappearance she must be seven and twenty now , a sweet age , when youth has lost its self consciousness and become a little sobered by experience .
well , here 's your good health landlord , and prosperity to your house .
in the pocket is a card case .
i am afraid that my explanation may disillusion you but it has always been my habit to hide none of my methods , either from my friend watson or from any one who might take an intelligent interest in them .
in the first place , how did these folk come , and how did they go ?
duke of balmoral 's iris .
it is very natural that the pledge of secrecy which we have exacted from you should have aroused your curiosity .
it 's moving towards us , watson .
the man has been branded at some time as they brand cattle .
that is true .
i thank your majesty .
perhaps you had better not speak of the matter .
have you a clue ?
by heaven , watson , i believe that i 've got it !
sherlock holmes preserved his calm professional manner until our visitor had left us , although it was easy for me , who knew him so well , to see that he was profoundly excited .
at one side of the fireplace was a heavy curtain which covered the bay window we had seen from outside .
stapleton laughed .
the swing of his nature took him from extreme languor to devouring energy and , as i knew well , he was never so truly formidable as when , for days on end , he had been lounging in his armchair amid his improvisations and his black letter editions .
might i ask you , watson , to open that window , and then to put a match to the edge of the straw ?
men of character always differentiate their long letters , however illegibly they may write .
look at these two men who are coming towards us , for example .
you must come back with us to scotland yard to be searched .
we were to fix it all two nights later .
as far as i can make out , the league was founded by an american millionaire , ezekiah hopkins , who was very peculiar in his ways .
i observed .
have you heard of the mysterious death of your late boarder mr enoch j .
it was at a quarter to twelve , as a matter of fact .
any other point , sir ?
yes , sir , and mean to find it .
that gravel page upon which i might have read so much has been long ere this smudged by the rain and defaced by the clogs of curious peasants .
if the art of the detective began and ended in reasoning from an arm chair , my brother would be the greatest criminal agent that ever lived .
miss hunter screamed and shrunk against the wall at the sight of him , but sherlock holmes sprang forward and confronted him .
i suggested ,
but that is mere speculation ,
what does that suggest to your mind ?
fear not for water ,
i do n't know what passed between the poor dad and him after that , but the dad came to me next day and asked me whether i would mind apologizing to hudson .
he came across , seated himself close to the young traveller , and held out his hand .
your reasoning is certainly plausible .
there is a cellar under this then ?
a woman , young and beautiful , was lying dead upon the bed .
the lord be thanked !
at the next he had shaken it off and saw only his duty towards intrusive strangers .
if she does not love your majesty , there is no reason why she should interfere with your majesty 's plan .
why to lord mount james ?
with an air of nonchalance which , under the circumstances , seemed to me to border upon affectation , he lounged up and down the pavement , and gazed vacantly at the ground , the sky , the opposite houses and the line of railings .
the portly client puffed out his chest with an appearance of some little pride and pulled a dirty and wrinkled newspaper from the inside pocket of his greatcoat .
come on , watson .
i have also examined every stable and out house in tavistock , and for a radius of ten miles .
it certainly sounds feasible .
is there anything else ?
his brother and i sat expectant .
i thought that it was the stable boy who had drawn them , but the lad swore he knew nothing about it .
he was a man about five foot nine in height , fifty or so years of age , his hair slightly grizzled , a grayish moustache , a curved nose , and a face which all of them described as fierce and forbidding .
to holdernesse hall .
it is useless for us to pretend that we do not know you , dr watson ,
it would appear so .
we must remember , in the first place , that there is some story of a family quarrel , followed by a reconciliation .
the polite agent was afraid he could say no more , as the affairs of his clients were not matters which he could discuss .
here we are , watson this must be the one .
it lies with me to tell for the first time what really took place between professor moriarty and mr sherlock holmes .
holmes muttered .
you are knocking yourself up , old man ,
the measure of that danger is the rigour of their precautions .
none at all ,
journeys end in lovers ' meetings , ' as the old play says .
thank you , miss cushing ,
precisely so , on december nd , just five days ago .
it could not have been on the side of the heath , or i should have seen him .
i leave it to any expert in the world whether that is not the mark of his thumb .
they are bones : some large and coarse , others smaller and more delicate .
you opened it do you remember ?
in the morning i obeyed holmes 's injunctions to the letter .
it is evidently a case of extraordinary interest , and one which presented immense opportunities to the scientific expert .
we entered together , and he closed it behind us .
i am very glad if i have helped you .
but why a rendezvous in the garden instead of a visit to the house ?
i have stood many a time and thought what a neat little homestead it would make .
but if he gained favour with his fellows , there was another quarter , one which had become even more vital to him , in which he lost it .
and i could put two hundred men into this town that would clear it out from end to end .
and how ?
at first she could see no injury , but as she tried to raise him she saw that blood was pouring from the underside of his neck .
the oaths and secrets of this brotherhood were frightful , but once within its rule no escape was possible .
now , that 's the house you 're after , that one standing back from the street .
a comparison of photographs has proved conclusively that m .
there may be some door keeper or attendant
he cried .
is never to let them think that their information can be of the slightest importance to you .
at first she would not open to me , but in her heart i know that now she loves me , and she could not leave me in the frosty night .
he 's a hard citizen , an old colour sergeant of the war , all scars and grizzle .
it 's this way , mr holmes .
he has devised it .
never !
i 'm in no hurry to see him .
i cried in amazement .
but this we have utterly failed to do .
you do n't seem to realize the position .
i wanted to have a word with you .
there are two possible explanations , and only two .
incredible imbecility !
in the meantime mr merryweather , we must put the screen over that dark lantern .
the fellow who came for me i 've forgotten his name said that you contracted it down in the east end among the sailors .
leave him to me ,
possibly the tramp wanted to hide that any murder at all had been committed .
with a shriek of joy our client clutched it up .
well , he is sure to keep an eye on the papers , since , to a poor man , the loss was a heavy one .
i believe that i was of some slight service to her .
because it is frayed there ?
the probability was , therefore , that she was telling the truth , or , at least , a part of the truth .
our success and even his life may depend upon his coming out before the fog is over the path .
we soon , however , had another and a more striking proof that there were secret agencies at work all round us .
you must allow that there is nothing supernatural about this , at any rate ?
the matter is too serious for any hesitation .
yet i could not shake off the vague feeling of dread which it left behind , though the sensation grew less keen as the weeks passed and nothing happened to disturb the usual routine of our lives .
the boy held the tiller , while against the red glare of the furnace i could see old smith , stripped to the waist , and shovelling coals for dear life .
no , mr holmes , we are done unless you can help me to find godfrey staunton .
he scribbled the appointment on his shirt cuff and hurried off in his strange , peering , absent minded fashion .
i suggested .
now we have the sherlock holmes ' test , and there will no longer be any difficulty .
i suppose it is pretty thick , now that you mention it .
he would not live a month if he did .
mr mac , the most practical thing that you ever did in your life would be to shut yourself up for three months and read twelve hours a day at the annals of crime .
they drove him an hour , and then opened the door and shot him out .
the door has not been opened since last night .
for example , there was that note which arrived during dinner .
here in his room .
he cried , with a sigh of relief .
you are right !
finally , when he read in the reports of the failure of this agent , he would step in himself with a master touch .
his head had been horribly mutilated by an expanding revolver bullet , but no weapon of any sort was to be found in the room .
when i learned that the missing man was devoted to entomology the identification was complete .
well , i 've given you the pointer , and you 're a sulky dog not to thank me for it .
it rested upon a heading which sent a chill to my heart .
he is a man of good birth and excellent education , endowed by nature with a phenomenal mathematical faculty .
remarkable , but by no means impossible ,
i forgot that i had not seen you for some weeks .
my own nervous system is an exceptionally sensitive one .
what i say to you is god 's truth , every word of it .
do n't frighten him by looking at him too hard .
i think , perhaps , we had better go down to tredannick wartha without further delay .
that is one of the points upon which your own researches have shed a light .
choosing a sheltered nook , he piled together a few dried branches and made a blazing fire , at which his companions might warm themselves , for they were now nearly five thousand feet above the sea level , and the air was bitter and keen .
anyone in the room could get out ?
turner had a considerable household , some half dozen at the least .
he took an orange from the cupboard , and tearing it to pieces he squeezed out the pips upon the table .
next comes :
once already his life has been attempted , but some evil spirit shielded him .
as a rule ,
perhaps it would have been better for both of us had i been sterner , but i meant it for the best .
i glanced at my companion , and his face had assumed such a disconsolate expression that it was all i could do to keep my countenance .
the thought was in my head as i turned into my own street , and at that moment a cab passed me , and there she was , sitting by the side of fairbairn , the two chatting and laughing , with never a thought for me as i stood watching them from the footpath .
from the front window upon the left of the door there peeped a glimmer of a feeble light .
to be with such a man for an hour is unpleasant .
so tall was he that his hat actually brushed the cross bar of the doorway , and his breadth seemed to span it across from side to side .
i gave it to him , and he read it over very carefully .
as i walked back i was overtaken by dr mortimer driving in his dog cart over a rough moorland track which led from the outlying farmhouse of foulmire .
again and again i had the same indignant reply .
i shrugged my shoulders .
sit here by me , then .
they dine here tonight , and there is some talk of our going to them next week .
that you left your key in the door ?
that you have really left me very few questions to ask .
if i am in luck , however , i may not be gone so very long .
you will tell him that you want to see the waste paper of yesterday .
i care nothing for myself .
from every gesture and expression i could see that he was a reserved , self contained man , with a dash of pride in his nature , more likely to hide his wounds than to expose them .
i think that sir james walter claims our first attention .
it is certainly possible .
she took no liquid , as there was a water tap in the stables , and it was the rule that the lad on duty should drink nothing else .
by degrees mr duncan ross took to coming in only once of a morning , and then , after a time , he did not come in at all .
he was reading a brown backed volume , but as the crowd approached he laid it aside , and listened attentively to an account of the episode .
i was n't best pleased , mr holmes , when she married again so soon after father 's death , and a man who was nearly fifteen years younger than herself .
the central part was evidently of a great age and shrouded in ivy , but the large windows showed that modern changes had been carried out , and one wing of the house appeared to be entirely new .
what have we here ?
we have heard from mr cecil barker that you did not actually see that you were never in the room where the tragedy occurred ?
they were evidently all deserted .
it has nothing to do with the main fact can n't have , on the face of it .
and when he speaks of irene adler , or when he refers to her photograph , it is always under the honourable title of the woman .
listen as one may , there is no shadow of a sound in all that mighty wilderness nothing but silence complete and heart subduing silence .
lestrade and mycroft met us by appointment at the outside of gloucester road station .
apply them !
i distinctly told bartholomew that we should be here , and yet there is no light in his window .
so treated , it worked out in this fashion :
her movements upon the monday night have not yet been traced , but it is undoubted that a woman answering to her description attracted much attention at charing cross station on tuesday morning by the wildness of her appearance and the violence of her gestures .
give me a glass of water , if you please .
but his next remark took a weight from my mind .
it 's the weirdest , strangest thing that ever i heard in my life .
in this case , however
excellent !
perfectly .
we will begin our investigation by a visit to aldgate station .
major murphy , to whom i owe most of my facts , assures me that he has never heard of any misunderstanding between the pair .
i got so close to them in the bustle that i could hear every word that passed between them .
i will n't deny that i have a liking for morris and would be sorry to see him come to harm .
i have not heard of any .
growled holmes .
so far i was still on safe ground .
we shall work the case out independently , and leave this fellow jones to exult over any mare 's nest which he may choose to construct .
she has the face of the most beautiful of women , and the mind of the most resolute of men .
i 've driven my cab this seven years and never a word of complaint .
he left the bar room but not before he had created a local hero .
what happened next ?
it is for you to help , not to hinder us in our duty .
one child one dear little romper just six years old .
it was the year ' when the crimean war was at its height , and the old convict ships had been largely used as transports in the black sea .
why , what did you think ?
he lived with a faithful servant , a countryman of his own , who looked after all his needs .
i snatched it up and examined it .
apart from the name upon the barrel , the idea had occurred to me .
our wagonette had topped a rise and in front of us rose the huge expanse of the moor , mottled with gnarled and craggy cairns and tors .
formed any definite conception as to what these perils are ?
nothing of the sort .
we guard our secret very jealously , however , and if it once became known that we had hydraulic engineers coming to our little house , it would soon rouse inquiry , and then , if the facts came out , it would be good bye to any chance of getting these fields and carrying out our plans .
perhaps not .
you can understand that our kinship makes it the more impossible for me to screen him in any way .
he was a sly , subtle , scheming man , and several things arose which gave me a suspicion of him , but i had no cause for any positive quarrel .
but the deception could not be kept up forever .
i wired to bristol for it last night .
you will seek help , not from the man you mention , but from the one that i choose .
it was the sight of that alpine stock which turned me cold and sick .
you have not lost heart , then ?
a good many people have wanted to know how he finds things out .
i lit a cigar , and puffed at it to steady my nerves , but my hands were trembling , and my temples throbbing with excitement .
then he placed his newly acquired bust in the centre of the cloth .
yes , sir i was standing by the door , and he with his back turned at that table .
the other laughed .
yes , my stepfather .
a curry was exactly the medium which would disguise this taste .
the rain was still falling steadily , for it was just the beginning of the wet season .
you heard nothing yourself last night ?
of course , my first act was to run into the waiting room .
when you drove home after the concert i called upon scotland yard and upon the chairman of the bank directors , with the result that you have seen .
shall we move farther back upon higher ground ?
you are scintillating this evening .
it might be ' sever , ' or ' lever , ' or ' never .
mr eccles was going to tell us about it when you entered the room .
many of my readers may retain some recollection of what was called at the time the cornish horror , though a most imperfect account of the matter reached the london press .
it only remains to indicate the part which she had played throughout .
might she not look upon me as a mere vulgar fortune seeker ?
it sounds high flown and absurd , but consider the facts !
well , that was reasonable and considerate ,
well , it is very handsome of you , mr holmes .
when i entered this room i found the window wide open , and i at once observed that the bust was gone from the mantelpiece .
he had been one of the officers in charge of the convict guard there .
he cried .
but about this picture : i thought you told me once , mr holmes , that you had never met professor moriarty .
so spirited a creature would have certainly roused the soundest of sleepers when it felt the prick of the knife .
it only remains to follow the other .
mary was the first to rush into my room , and , at the sight of the coronet and of arthur 's face , she read the whole story and , with a scream , fell down senseless on the ground .
i gather from his wire that there have been some new incidents of importance .
yes , i observed it .
a vote of thanks and confidence was passed in full lodge , and so for the time the matter ended .
put yourself in my position , mr holmes !
i am at my wit 's end .
never .
observed holmes , shading his eyes .
he had a solid grip of fact and a cool , clear , common sense brain , which should take him some way in his profession .
what had become of the other three ?
you say that you have five letters which compromise the countess d ' albert .
certainly .
why , it is after nine now ,
holmes smoked for some time in silence .
you have a maid who has a sweetheart ?
it was not printed in this room ,
my daughter is very young she is scarce of an age to marry .
dear me , it is certainly a very interesting case .
i told the whole story to mr mycroft holmes next morning , and subsequently to the police .
he will have your life .
cried the inspector .
yes , sir , it is true ,
yes , but with my back towards it .
in the outhouse you will find a considerable quantity of straw ,
you have already sworn the oath of secrecy and fidelity , and you are aware that the punishment for any breach of it is instant and inevitable death ?
i have one or two more points to bring before the meeting .
i was aware that by anything of interest , holmes meant anything of criminal interest .
ring for our boots and tell them to order a cab .
his form had filled out , his wrinkles were gone , the dull eyes had regained their fire , and there , sitting by the fire and grinning at my surprise , was none other than sherlock holmes .
i will call you early to morrow morning , and you and i will try if we can throw some little light upon the mystery .
you are ready to come to birmingham , then ?
our friend , the doctor , was hard put to it when he wrote this .
had it been in a feminine hand , he might have imagined that it was the beginning of one of those adventures which had been familiar enough in his past life .
to fly would be a confession of guilt .
so our book has already become a large book , which is surely something gained .
beside the couch was a wooden chair , and on the angle of the back hung a very seedy and disreputable hard felt hat , much the worse for wear , and cracked in several places .
your experience is , so far as i know , perfectly unique ,
there are no footsteps nor any clue to the criminals .
my reasoning seems to have been pretty sound , watson .
we had turned to do so , when we saw a swiss lad come running along it with a letter in his hand .
i was waitin ' outside the door , sir , and i could hear him .
well , it ended by their taking blessington and hanging him .
mr abelwhite was a kind man , and he would often drop into my little shanty and smoke a pipe with me , for white folk out there feel their hearts warm to each other as they never do here at home .
he overdid it .
the only light in the room came from the lamp upon the table at which i had been reading .
brooding over the case in that den of his , it suddenly struck him what absolutely damning evidence he could make against mcfarlane by using that thumb mark .
no , he was averse to it also .
are we not free folks in a free country ?
james never did it .
well , then , i should recommend a nice , cheery country walk for both of you .
they did not know how to look .
gregson climbed the stair to arrest this desperate murderer with the same absolutely quiet and businesslike bearing with which he would have ascended the official staircase of scotland yard .
whoever fixed that up had made up his mind that he was going to take no chances of missing his man .
the stab was on the right side of the neck and from behind forward , so that it is almost impossible that it could have been self inflicted .
holmes made no further allusion to the matter that day , though he sat lost in thought for a long time after our belated dinner .
you do n't object to tobacco , i take it ?
her husband developed some hateful qualities or shall we say that he contracted some loathsome disease , and became a leper or an imbecile ?
i think we have drawn as much as we can from this curious letter and now , sir henry , has anything else of interest happened to you since you have been in london ?
he added , not unkindly , as he laid his hand upon the shoulder of the prostrate man ,
they lay all the evidence before me , and i am generally able , by the help of my knowledge of the history of crime , to set them straight .
miss doran , whose graceful figure and striking face attracted much attention at the westbury house festivities , is an only child , and it is currently reported that her dowry will run to considerably over the six figures , with expectancies for the future .
there could be no doubt of the fact .
holmes gazed at it , and then passed on to the lodge gate .
it was enough to make a man eat his heart out to have to stand the kick and the cuff of every petty jack in office , to have rice to eat and water to drink , when that gorgeous fortune was ready for him outside , just waiting to be picked up .
in that case i shall come out to morrow and talk it over with you .
both of them nodded to ferrier as he entered , and the one in the rocking chair commenced the conversation .
you 'll hear quick enough .
my friend volunteered to go and see .
on the contrary , from day to day i had become more irritable at the sight , and my conscience swelled nightly within me at the thought that i had lacked the courage to protest .
indeed !
it will be clear enough to you soon ,
one more coruscation , my dear watson yet another brain wave !
the light still burned steadily in front .
my answer was to rise from the table .
there is no murder , ' i answered .
finally , after some hesitation , he determined to see the matter through .
may i ask whether you have any professional inquiry on foot at present ?
that dreadful sentinel sent a chill to my heart which i do not think that any burglar could have done .
by gar , mate !
your secretary ?
you astonish me , mr holmes .
as we walked rapidly down howe street i glanced back at the building which we had left .
ah , that 's another matter .
he sha n't know either for he has got too much conscience for the likes of me .
it died away , and an absolute silence closed in upon us .
here within a few hours of the tragedy were his wife and his nearest friend laughing together behind a bush in the garden which had been his .
i took the treasure box and let it down , and then slid down myself , having first left the sign of the four upon the table , to show that the jewels had come back at last to those who had most right to them .
of course i might have fled from the house , but my curiosity was almost as strong as my fears .
i want to learn if anything has happened since yesterday .
only when my attention had been drawn to dr sterndale and his cottage did i find its counterpart .
now stand clear , for when i say ' three , ' down goes the wiper .
i do n't remember seeing any .
it would come to fifty thousand apiece ,
i do n't say that he can n't be beat .
there are considerable difficulties both ways , and yet one or the other it must be .
then , of course , this blood belongs to a second individual presumably the murderer , if murder has been committed .
the goose , mr holmes !
i have spoken with this policeman to night and he appears to me to be a perfectly reliable person .
we were given a suit of sailor togs each , a barrel of water , two casks , one of junk and one of biscuits , and a compass .
still , i confess that i miss my rubber .
he would seize the coat , then , and be in the act of throwing it out , when it would occur to him that it would swim and not sink .
i could not bear the disgrace .
as to the admiralty it is buzzing like an overturned bee hive .
ah , that is good luck .
it was the secretary , sir
if a herd of buffaloes had passed along there could not be a greater mess .
he cried .
i added , looking hard at my companion ,
yes , there was a ring .
a milk boy , passing on his way to the dairy , happened to walk down the lane which leads from the mews at the back of the hotel .
again and again i had to ask him whether he would give in and sign the documents .
sure enough , when we reached baker street the detective was already there , and we found him pacing up and down in a fever of impatience .
god forbid that i should throw a doubt on anyone here but if so much as a word of gossip got to the ears of this man , there would be an end of any chance of our getting him .
tobacco and my work that is all that is left to me .
it has been kept very quiet , for the capital was all privately subscribed , and it 's too good a thing to let the public into .
any delay in arresting the assassin ,
i shall try my luck some day .
a small stream fed it and continued beyond it , so that the sheet of water , though turbid , was never ditchlike or unhealthy .
both she and her husband had occupied the bed .
at the meeting it was arranged that he and his house should be blown up with dynamite .
and then you heard nothing until you read the reports of the death in the paper ?
it reminds me of the circumstances attendant on the death of van jansen , in utrecht , in the year ' .
that is where he would fly .
thank you , watson , you must help me on with my coat .
it 's gone !
do n't move , i beg you , watson .
within a week of his leaving half a dozen men were inquiring for him .
the question was how to identify an unknown prisoner .
as he stood by the desolate fire , he felt that the only one thing which could assuage his grief would be thorough and complete retribution , brought by his own hand upon his enemies .
my god , what shall i do !
we read the details in the papers , and , knowing that he had been a friend of our father 's , we discussed the case freely in his presence .
i must wait and hear his opinion , holmes .
certainly .
he left his bicycle and approached the house in the twilight .
we soothed and comforted her by such words as we could find .
i perceive that you are not yourself a member of the family .
the killing of mortimer tregennis ,
roared mcmurdo in a voice which brought every head in the carriage round to witness the altercation .
i picked it up cheap from harding brothers , two doors from the high street station .
on the contrary ,
another glass , watson !
when i was near the bottom of the descent i looked back .
as i passed out through the wicket gate , however , i found my acquaintance of the morning waiting in the shadow upon the other side .
she cried ,
i 've never shown you my little store .
his fortune was a considerable one , and such a loss could not in any way affect him .
i have not all my facts yet , but i do not think there are any insuperable difficulties .
he had not time to get it from the sheath before i had the harpoon through him .
what about him ?
a week , i repeated ,
who has the key of this bureau ?
i cannot imagine .
lestrade and gregson glanced at each other with an incredulous smile .
there 's no chance of my keeping company with him for i dislike the man ,
he cried .
the same afternoon saw us both at hurlstone .
good dog , then !
it is time we went down to st .
should i stop the service and make a scene in the church ?
why , that he was a retired sergeant of marines .
where i was sure it must be .
cried the athlete .
we heard nothing of the kind ,
might i ask you would you have the kindness ?
my companion gave a sudden chuckle of comprehension .
it was someone within the citadel , and it was a woman .
cried sir henry .
the old crone drew out an evening paper , and pointed at our advertisement .
i may tell you , however , that his grace has already intimated that a check for five thousand pounds will be handed over to the person who can tell him where his son is , and another thousand to him who can name the man or men who have taken him .
so far , so good ,
learn then from this story not to fear the fruits of the past , but rather to be circumspect in the future , that those foul passions whereby our family has suffered so grievously may not again be loosed to our undoing .
i know , also , that they were all three away from the ship last night .
i assure you that i am innocent .
well , we will take it as a working hypothesis for want of a better .
morris had turned deadly pale , and his knees seemed to give way under him as he fell back into his chair .
do n't tell me that she helped to set a trap for me ?
it lasted forty minutes , and at a quarter past nine mrs barclay returned home , having left miss morrison at her door as she passed .
whether it 's passing , or tackling , or dribbling , there 's no one to touch him , and then , he 's got the head , and can hold us all together .
holmes held it out to me .
and yet , as i strolled round it and tried to steep my soul in its gentle balm , a strange incident occurred , which brought me back to the tragedy and left a sinister impression in my mind .
one of them held the horse 's head while the other led us in .
he was dragged back into the room , and then commenced a terrific conflict .
you 'll only get yourself hurt ,
i explained everything to him : how i had found it impossible to remain behind , how i had followed him , and how i had witnessed all that had occurred .
you will leave my service to morrow .
but i should not think he knew him .
my friend turned to the country inspector .
yet we must exhaust all natural explanations before we fall back upon such a theory as this .
we will be at vauxhall bridge presently ,
but when chance threw you in my way , jack , and i learned to love you , i feared to tell you about my child .
he cried .
well , my theory is that he followed drebber as far as the brixton road .
when they reached the open space round the mine shaft there were a hundred miners waiting , stamping their feet and blowing on their fingers for it was bitterly cold .
by her advice i published my address in the advertisement column .
sit over here on the sofa , and you will not have long to wait .
here is my lens .
cried trevor .
but i see no traces of anyone else .
toby never hesitated or swerved , but waddled on in his peculiar rolling fashion .
well , now so it is !
there is the secret of that cornish seclusion which people have marvelled at .
it 's me for little holland , and the sooner the better .
i told you what i 'd do if you molested her , and , by the lord !
i stood upon the hearth rug and picked up the stick which our visitor had left behind him the night before .
why did you beat the pavement ?
i daresay they might get a peep at that sales book if they wanted to .
a door opened and shut .
could we advertise , then , asking for information from wharfingers ?
this gentleman ?
he must act at once , or his victim might get beyond his power .
well , then , listen to what i say , and do as i order you , for indeed it 's the only way for us .
if the police are to hush this thing up , there must be no more of hugh boone .
he drew in his breath with a shrill , excited intake .
i think we shall have another look at it in an unobtrusive way .
the person becomes , as it were , the epitome of the history of his own family .
we have known for some time that a clever gang was at work ,
you are the historian of this bunch .
a cold wind swept down from it and set us shivering .
the fame of your wealth has gone abroad , lord mount james , and it is entirely possible that a gang of thieves have secured your nephew in order to gain from him some information as to your house , your habits , and your treasure .
both women were positive upon the point .
what do you think of it , mr holmes ?
because it serves to show very clearly how simple the explanation may be of an affair which at first sight seems to be almost inexplicable .
and i have my own plan as well .
see here !
what else is there to live for ?
my friend had listened with amused surprise to this long speech , which was poured forth with extraordinary vigour and earnestness , every point being driven home by the slapping of a brawny hand upon the speaker 's knee .
it was our visitor 's turn to look surprised .
the fun of it is ,
i expect that we shall be able to go down to norfolk tomorrow , and to take our friend some very definite news as to the secret of his annoyance .
yesterday morning he set off for this place on his bicycle , with his gun concealed in his overcoat .
do what you like and go where you will , but meet me here before dusk without fail without fail , mr mac .
it will be clear to you , from what i have said , that only you could have let this young man out , since you were left in the room , and must have locked the door when you went out .
i will tell you , however .
a commissionnaire remains all night in a little lodge at the foot of the stairs , and is in the habit of making coffee at his spirit lamp for any of the officials who may be working over time .
you should be in bed , i said .
he furnished me with a plan of the house , and he told me that in the forenoon the study was always empty , as the secretary was employed up here .
an instant later the man had scrambled on to his feet , his face crimson with shame .
holmes continued , joining his finger tips and leaning well back in his chair ,
did i not tell you how quick and resolute she was ?
i wish none of their confidences ,
exactly .
well , you know best about that ,
i have been waiting so eagerly for you ,
the sound was repeated , and then there came a gentle tap at the door .
this dr barnicot is an enthusiastic admirer of napoleon , and his house is full of books , pictures , and relics of the french emperor .
is this fellow 's temper so formidable , or what is it ?
it is quite six years since douglas left california .
when i got him into his box , from which he had slipped , i was off as fast as i could run .
the door was locked on the inside , but we put our shoulders to it , and knocked it in .
there has been an inquest ,
you have acted with great discretion .
but , by heaven , if the worst has happened we 'll avenge him !
are you off , then ?
as a flash of lightning in the night shows up in an instant every detail of a wild landscape , so at one glance i seemed to see every possible result of such an action the detection , the capture , the honoured career ending in irreparable failure and disgrace , my friend himself lying at the mercy of the odious milverton .
they had been seen together at euston station about half past eight on the evening of the third .
it is to day or to morrow with mr john bull .
that was enough to decide me .
surely the one to some extent implies the other .
yes , i think it would be as well .
we shuffled cautiously towards it , trying every plank before we dared to put our whole weight upon it .
opposite the door was a showy fireplace , surmounted by a mantelpiece of imitation white marble .
capital !
does she know ?
but that was not quite good enough , mr holmes .
we were sitting there in silence when the door opened and a young lady came in .
there were three of them in it : the young man , the old man , and a third , to whose identity i have no clue .
a solid iron chest of indian workmanship stood upon the deck .
a quarter of an hour passed , and then a second cyclist appeared .
but because the matter is political my husband refuses to take me into his complete confidence .
who are these people , that you should visit them at such an hour ?
i imagine nothing , mr barker .
you 've got us side tracked with your interesting anecdotes , mr holmes .
when i had cleared it all up i had an interview with him , and finding that he would not tell me the story , i told it to him , on which he had to confess that i was right and to add the very few details which were not yet quite clear to me .
there was a pause then for about ten minutes , as if the person were waiting to see whether the noise had awakened me .
the prisoner will be put before the magistrates in the course of the week ,
his record was magnificent .
mcmurdo drew a cocked pistol from the side pocket of his peajacket .
i do n't want you to commit yourself too far unless you are sure .
mr hatherley ?
but jefferson will soon be here .
in that gloomy tunnel it must indeed have been a dreadful sight to see that huge black creature , with its flaming jaws and blazing eyes , bounding after its victim .
i can tell a moriarty when i see one .
i believe you are right ,
i only mention it because , if i had been handling the case , i should have been inclined to make that the starting point of my investigation .
i fancy not .
look at it in this light .
we took him in and fed him and cared for him .
finally he handed a note to the boy , with directions to put it into the hands of the person to whom it was addressed , and especially to answer no questions of any sort which might be put to him .
there is going to be shooting , and somebody is going to be hurt .
his head was sunk upon his breast , and he looked from my point of view like a strange , lank bird , with dull gray plumage and a black top knot .
i understand that you think out little puzzles , and i 've had one this morning which wants more thinking out than i am able to give it .
the same curious accident happened to him in the rooms of the indian a silent , little , hook nosed fellow , who eyed us askance , and was obviously glad when holmes 's architectural studies had come to an end .
i handed him the glass , and he drank it down .
why , he 's the chaplain of this ship the chaplain , no less !
but this man has all the millions of the capitalists at his back .
at ten o'clock the same night i started off upon my journey .
the forms of the law must be complied with .
i was proud , too , to think that i had so far mastered his system as to apply it in a way which earned his approval .
he was a widower at that time .
well , i am not so clear about that , watson , for it is evident that they must either kill her or else secure her in such a way that she could not give immediate notice of their escape .
and yet i suppressed all appearance of interest .
that seems very remarkable .
cried the colonel in great agitation .
where are they now ?
it would be a rare place for a gallop .
with this short preface i shall turn to my notes of what proved to be a strange , though a peculiarly terrible , chain of events .
the main thing with people of that sort ,
holmes rose and sat down at the table with his pen in his hand and a bundle of paper before him .
now , this puts a very powerful weapon into our hands .
do you observe anything remarkable about that ?
and i acted for the best .
the treasure has been discovered .
well , maybe a wee nip would keep out the raw morning chill .
replied our visitor ,
better make it out for pounds .
i think it will be of the greatest assistance in producing the witness whom i require .
that change in the footprints , for example .
a child has done the horrid thing .
oh , sir , do you not think that you could help me , too , and at least throw a little light through the dense darkness which surrounds me ?
depend upon it , if your son is innocent he will be none the worse .
i thought you would come to that conclusion .
inspector gregory , to whom the case has been committed , is an extremely competent officer .
but then i remembered the pile of papers and bills with which his study table was littered .
i think that we are now sufficiently imposing to strike terror into a guilty breast .
it is bad , mr holmes , very bad !
have you any reason to suspect robbery ?
i should like you to offer a reward coming from yourself , for the officials may take a little time before they would agree upon the sum , and these things cannot be done too promptly .
oh , do n't bring it into court !
do n't you see any bearing upon the case ?
pietro is set upon his track .
as he hunted about , he kept muttering to himself , and finally he broke out into a loud crow of delight .
sir henry and i both stared at the woman in amazement .
the inquest is just over .
if he were safely out of the country it would relieve the tax payer of a burden .
the grate is much too small ,
just walk on a little way , dear , said mrs barclay
you recollect how annoyed i was at being balked by so small a thing ?
with her complete self absorption and general air of comfortable somnolence .
i heard it once before .
i 'd recognized him in the township , and again when he sprang for me but his own mother would n't recognize him as i saw him then .
excellent !
i 'm an honest man in some things , ettie .
i think we may very well trust him .
i laughed incredulously as sherlock holmes leaned back in his settee and blew little wavering rings of smoke up to the ceiling .
not more than a few minutes , sir i forgot to tell you that mrs marker , the housekeeper , had been in there tidying not very long before about a quarter of an hour , she says .
and then we got talking .
we would think the whole had been fixed up for theatrical effect if there was n't a dead man in the middle of it .
her sufferings were physical as well as mental , for over one eye rose a hideous , plum coloured swelling , which her maid , a tall , austere woman , was bathing assiduously with vinegar and water .
the animal has been moving , and we have the length of its stride .
i screamed , and at that moment my son arthur came into the room .
i have so deep a respect for the extraordinary qualities of holmes that i have always deferred to his wishes , even when i least understood them .
clair , with the exception of his coat .
they were found floating near the margin by a park keeper .
from within he produced a crumpled piece of paper , an old fashioned brass key , a peg of wood with a ball of string attached to it , and three rusty old disks of metal .
i regret the injustice which i did you .
sherlock holmes laughed heartily .
if this is so , whose interest is it that the letter should come out ?
on monday you will arrive early at farnham you will conceal yourself near charlington heath you will observe these facts for yourself , and act as your own judgment advises .
i had intended to bury myself in central africa .
i cried .
i have to make a clean breast of it all .
the work was usually done by italians , in the room we were in .
i have three maid servants who have been with me a number of years and whose absolute reliability is quite above suspicion .
he spoke of some burglary which , he said , had been committed in the west end , and he appeared , i remember , to be quite unnecessarily excited about it , declaring that a day should not pass before we should add stronger bolts to our windows and doors .
then he turned the handle and entered , i at his heels , with the cocked pistol in my hand .
may i consult you ?
i had heard a waterman speak of the speed of smith 's launch the aurora , so i thought she would be a handy craft for our escape .
i made friends with someone who could help me , i name no names , for i do n't want to get any one else in a hole , and i soon found that he still had the jewels .
they put in the advertisement , one rogue has the temporary office , the other rogue incites the man to apply for it , and together they manage to secure his absence every morning in the week .
since the cab was there after the rain began , and was not there at any time during the morning i have gregson 's word for that it follows that it must have been there during the night , and , therefore , that it brought those two individuals to the house .
scanlan and mcmurdo climbed a heap of slag from which the whole scene lay before them .
the butler had better wait outside .
there is no alternative , i assure you .
you wrote it ?
that 's the end of the black blood .
ah , mr mac ,
will n't it ring ?
and you were ?
these last words were in greek , and at the same instant the man with a convulsive effort tore the plaster from his lips , and screaming out ' sophy !
i took the job myself .
what will the duke say ,
mr rucastle survived , but was always a broken man , kept alive solely through the care of his devoted wife .
the landlord of the alpha .
we made our way downstairs as quietly as possible , and out into the bright morning sunshine .
these are his wigwams with the roofs off .
i am afraid so .
i thought there might be some weapon or other trace .
we ordered three busts of that sort from gelder co .
i am afraid that it will take wiser heads than yours or mine ,
i believe you have eyes in the back of your head .
shall i leave , percy ?
i think that both inferences are permissible .
but i suspect it is the sequel of the story of the statues .
now , this is a most suggestive fact .
the agony of those contorted limbs struck me with a spasm of pain and blurred my eyes with tears .
he was removed , loudly protesting , to the police station , while the inspector remained upon the premises in the hope that the ebbing tide might afford some fresh clue .
you know my theory about this norwood case ?
the pipe was still between his lips , the smoke still curled upward , and the room was full of a dense tobacco haze , but nothing remained of the heap of shag which i had seen upon the previous night .
like all human kind , they flitted from the gloom into the light , and so back into the gloom once more .
no , she was not hurrying it did not seem to him that she was particularly agitated .
that is why i have come to you .
a minute later he was in the room .
mr fairdale hobbs .
but the paper was uninteresting .
her prolonged absence having caused some comment , her father followed her , but learned from her maid that she had only come up to her chamber for an instant , caught up an ulster and bonnet , and hurried down to the passage .
he 's armed and shoots quick and straight , with no questions asked .
afterwards he had , to fulfill the prearranged cipher , to fill in any two words in each space .
he went from his dressing room , and i did not hear him go .
holmes picked up the daily telegraph which lay upon the table .
did no one examine ?
none did come for a week , and then yesterday morning i found this paper lying on the sundial in the garden .
well , watson , what do you think of it ?
it was not easy to pick one 's steps , but , on the whole , i was inclined to dismiss the idea that there had been anything between the colonel and miss morrison , but more than ever convinced that the young lady held the clue as to what it was which had turned mrs barclay to hatred of her husband .
how could you hear of it in london and get to the spot as soon as i ?
he could n't stand , far less help .
cried the lady .
on it was printed , in bold straggling letters :
there 's foul play somewhere , and there 's black villainy brewing , to that i 'll swear !
the light had come back to his eyes and the colour to his cheeks , as he set himself with great vigour and lucidity to explain the situation .
the medical evidence showed conclusively that death was due to apoplexy .
as you both locked your doors at night , your rooms were unapproachable from that side .
he was surely not gored by a bull ?
there 's something throbbing in my head now , like a docker 's hammer , but that morning i seemed to have all niagara whizzing and buzzing in my ears .
i vould never have had you in my house if i had known it not if you vere to pay me a hundred dollar a veek .
even now i was in considerable difficulty , but a happy thought put me in possession of several other letters .
what is this ?
i cried .
as we went i glanced back , and there was that yellow livid face watching us out of the upper window .
presuming that it is an appointment ,
if i can be of use .
well , they were a mighty hard looking crowd .
we have tried and failed .
i remembered how the baronet had told me that he had handed his old wardrobe to barrymore .
it is i , mcmurdo .
and now , if you have quite finished , we will hark back to kensington and see what the manager of harding brothers has to say on the matter .
what we have to determine is , whether it was done by someone outside or inside the house .
i fear not , mr holmes .
it was almost dark before we found ourselves in pall mall , at the rooms of mr melas .
no , i think that i 'll take it .
i play his accompaniments in the evening .
but i 'll take the umbrella .
criminal cases are continually hinging upon that one point .
that we go easier upon the small men .
i have no doubt that , in spite of the repairs , you could manage there for one night .
if that is the view you take ,
you are aware that i am not a very sound sleeper , and since i have been on guard in this house my slumbers have been lighter than ever .
my family itself is so small that it will not take me long to describe it .
i knocked him down , and the police have him in custody but i can tell you with the most absolute confidence that no possible connection will ever be traced between the gentleman upon whose front teeth i have barked my knuckles and the retiring mathematical coach , who is , i dare say , working out problems upon a black board ten miles away .
had he ever showed any signs of having taken opium ?
then i walked home .
we approached the door but suddenly a woman appeared out of the shadow and stood in the golden track of the lamp light .
i could get nothing more .
because there are no hills there , and our friend says that he did not notice the carriage go up any .
but he 's a good hearted old chap .
i was determined to preserve my disguise as long as possible , and hence my preference for a dirty face .
i had , therefore , already made up my mind .
the sergeant picked up a card which lay beside the dead man on the floor .
i went to the altar with him with the intention to make him just as good a wife as it was in me to be .
nothing could be more unlike .
sherlock holmes bent down to it , and instantly rose again with a sharp intaking of the breath .
and not a word to a soul .
the man was mad .
she had a proud , finely cut face , so regular that it might have seemed impassive were it not for the sensitive mouth and the beautiful dark , eager eyes .
your son had no shoes or slippers on when you saw him ?
they had just found a great treasure trove .
you do n't believe it , do you , watson ?
i had not been in my study five minutes when the maid entered to say that a person desired to see me .
how on earth
holmes gave an enigmatic smile .
you look dissatisfied .
the man 's death is a mere incident a trivial episode in comparison with our real task , which is to trace this document and save a european catastrophe .
not a word would our captive say , but he glared at us from the shadow of his matted hair , and once , when my hand seemed within his reach , he snapped at it like a hungry wolf .
carefully holmes held each separate shard to the light , but in no way did it differ from any other shattered piece of plaster .
the inspector laughed .
poor annie here and my mother were broken hearted .
a heavy , elderly man came plodding up the path .
but a devil he was , if ever one walked the earth .
then i saw him scribble on a piece of paper , and i knew that he was writing me a note .
how are the scowrers getting on in your parts ?
there is material here .
i think anything out of the ordinary routine of life well worth reporting .
i am your neighbor over yonder ,
oh yes , it is most necessary .
oh , not very many minutes .
this would be in the year , after he had been eight or nine years in england .
the melancholy of the moor , the death of the unfortunate pony , the weird sound which had been associated with the grim legend of the baskervilles , all these things tinged my thoughts with sadness .
then suddenly came a low guggling , gargling sound , and a brisk drumming upon woodwork .
that 's how it stands with me .
well , then , i must make some suggestions to you .
it is the one quality which gregory lacks .
what a pity !
of course he must recall the snake before the morning light revealed it to the victim .
she cried .
let me see the contents of the bag which you fished from the mere .
we cannot but think that it supplies an argument to those who would wish to see our detectives more decentralized , and so brought into closer and more effective touch with the cases which it is their duty to investigate .
but as to murder , i am as innocent as you .
he tapped at the winder , about three it would be .
however , i threw all fears to the winds , ate a hearty supper , drove to paddington , and started off , having obeyed to the letter the injunction as to holding my tongue .
but it was weary years before my time came .
the brother died in a fit , on which sholto walked off with the treasure .
from the instant that we passed the rise , we could no longer see the vehicle , but we hastened onward at such a pace that my sedentary life began to tell upon me , and i was compelled to fall behind .
nothing out of the way .
i left the breakfast table , and as i ascended the stair i met him coming down with an old rusty key , which must have belonged to the attic , in one hand , and a small brass box , like a cashbox , in the other .
the others were invisible .
his card , which seemed too small to carry the weight of his academic distinctions , preceded him by a few seconds , and then he entered himself so large , so pompous , and so dignified that he was the very embodiment of self possession and solidity .
she did not see him , but she says that she could not be mistaken in his quick , firm tread .
for centuries it had remained unchanged but within the last few years its picturesque appearance and situation have attracted a number of well to do residents , whose villas peep out from the woods around .
there was but one way for it .
could you put me up to night ?
you can understand that , living the life which i have described , we were little likely to see anyone of our own age and position .
the property can never be yours .
lawler explained .
both the inspector and the doctor will meet me here at that hour , and i hope by that time to have cleared up any little obscurity which the case may still present .
i have no data yet .
surely it is no great feat to assume that a man who treats a fifty guinea watch so cavalierly must be a careless man .
i was placed , however , in a comfortable boarding establishment at edinburgh , and there i remained until i was seventeen years of age .
the earth floor had sunk in at one place , making a natural grave , so we left achmet the merchant there , having first covered him over with loose bricks .
there will be plenty for us to do tomorrow .
about a mile inland .
no one else had the handling of them .
drink this .
on the third morning , however he did not appear , as was his custom , after breakfast to receive my instructions for the day .
at that moment the door of the house burst open , and thaddeus sholto came running out , with his hands thrown forward and terror in his eyes .
an hour later holmes , lestrade and i stood upon the underground railroad at the point where it emerges from the tunnel immediately before aldgate station .
and now comes the strangest part of the affair .
then a confused , dull murmur broke itself into the measured thud of heavy footsteps rapidly approaching .
a murder a most dramatic and remarkable murder .
indeed , it is a likely ruse enough ,
you must be aware that what you are doing is quite illegal .
the supply of game for london is going steadily up , ' it ran .
i was preoccupied with business matters .
i was afraid it was all up with him .
maybe miss ettie has told you how it is with us ?
i trust that we may do as much for you .
indeed .
cried hopkins , as he held up the damning notebook , with the initials of our prisoner on the first leaf and the blood stain on the cover .
is n't that the direction of the great grimpen mire ?
the gentleman , however , seeing perhaps the look of incredulity upon my face , opened a pocket book and took out a note .
for me ,
what has he done ?
i crave for mental exaltation .
well , mr holmes , what do you make of these ?
but there 's this secret between us , and we can never be the same until it is cleared .
in the meantime , the matter is being actively investigated , mr lestrade , one of the very smartest of our detective officers , being in charge of the case .
i thought it would please you .
i could see his black figure clearly outlined against the green behind him .
it becomes a personal matter with me now , and , if god sends me health , i shall set my hand upon this gang .
i consider your case to be hopeless .
we were quietly married at a registry office , and we returned to norfolk a wedded couple .
no doubt we had , but i beg you will n't try to drag me into the matter , mr holmes .
he had to open the building and the room .
as far as we can judge , none of my father 's property had been actually stolen , though everything had been turned out .
he is round in the stable lane now .
i give you my word that i 'll fire if you come any nearer .
not a doubt of it .
saturday night is our meeting , and if you come then , we 'll make you free forever of the vermissa valley .
indeed , so distorted were their features that , save for his black beard and stout figure , we might have failed to recognize in one of them the greek interpreter who had parted from us only a few hours before at the diogenes club .
state your case ,
no wonder that the grounds look like a gravel pit .
we could not hear the servant 's reply , but the door closed , and some one began to ascend the stairs .
thank you .
that 's true enough , and we 'll talk till the cows come home of the killing of charlie williams or of simon bird , or any other job in the past .
i am all the family that this young man has got , and i tell you that i am not responsible .
then he carefully scrutinized the broken and frayed end where it had snapped off when the burglar had dragged it down .
man , you will n't live long in these parts if you speak in the open street like that .
there are no rupees for you this journey .
take my advice and turn in .
he opened the door as he spoke , and i had hardly time to spring out when the coachman lashed the horse and the carriage rattled away .
i had not even concluded for certain that it was the pearl , but it was evident to me that he was looking for something , since he carried the bust past the other houses in order to break it in the garden which had a lamp overlooking it .
always there was this feeling of an unseen force , a fine net drawn round us with infinite skill and delicacy , holding us so lightly that it was only at some supreme moment that one realized that one was indeed entangled in its meshes .
i accuse you ,
hilton cubitt shook his massive head .
i was to see that the doors were open and the signal of a green or white light in a window which faced the drive was to give notice if all was safe or if the attempt had better be postponed .
witness : i was so disturbed and excited as i rushed out into the open , that i could think of nothing except of my father .
capture of the criminal .
for an instant i could hardly believe that here was indeed a door which led away from death .
there is no great mystery in this matter ,
that was what brought me out .
the pearl was not there .
mcmurdo continued to gaze at her in open admiration until her eyes dropped in confusion before this masterful visitor .
i only require a few missing links to have an entirely connected case .
i gasped .
one never knows in times like these how a thing may come back to one .
the man must value the pipe highly when he prefers to patch it up rather than buy a new one with the same money .
it is just as you say .
the cards still lay upon the table .
the others marked it and applauded .
its finder has carried it off , therefore , to fulfil the ultimate destiny of a goose , while i continue to retain the hat of the unknown gentleman who lost his christmas dinner .
it was as cold as a block of marble .
a high bald head had a small velvet smoking cap poised coquettishly upon one side of its pink curve .
therefore , i argued , they did not go very far .
no , sir
the pounds .
was she his client , his friend , or his mistress ?
well , sir , i hope that you are none the worse !
come along , my dear fellow , for it 's an urgent call .
he was , however , above all things practical .
that is certainly rather against your theory that they committed a murder in kent last night .
what is the use of our speculating in this way when the original plans were actually found on west ?
was murdered at halliday 's private hotel about six o clock this morning .
i must , however , as a matter of duty , send an inspector with you , since you have so valuable a charge .
it has been bought by the state merton county railroad company .
some weeks ago mr blessington came down to me in , as it seemed to me , a state of considerable agitation .
he picked up the four ends and examined them with his pocket lens .
i was wondering if there were any evidence of such a sound tonight .
it 's the big white one over yonder .
there is a three foot flower border outside this window , but no indication of a footmark .
exactly .
start tonight !
a fellow who is working at the chemical laboratory up at the hospital .
i feel that time is of value ,
finally , with a shamefaced apology for his weakness , he rose once more .
i think i have known how to frame the letter ,
i must not stop , or my brother may miss me .
that 's what i think ,
while there she had met a young man named harold latimer , who had acquired an ascendancy over her and had eventually persuaded her to fly with him .
we shall meet you here later , hopkins , and see if we can come to closer quarters with the gentleman who has paid this visit in the night .
how he pulled himself together in the face of what must have been a paralyzing shock when he found that the wrong man had fallen a victim to his plot .
ah , that 's the question ,
vitus 's dance .
he is a man of fifty , strong , active , with iron gray hair , great bunched black eyebrows , the step of a deer and the air of an emperor a fierce , masterful man , with a red hot spirit behind his parchment face .
no he has a latch key , and he let himself in .
they pushed her into the carriage .
the old house with its atmosphere of murder , the singular and formidable inhabitants , the unknown dangers of the approach , and the fact that we were putting ourselves legally in a false position all combined to damp my ardour .
we followed their cab until it pulled up somewhere near here .
once only had i known him to fail , in the case of the king of bohemia and of the irene adler photograph but when i looked back to the weird business of the sign of four , and the extraordinary circumstances connected with the study in scarlet , i felt that it would be a strange tangle indeed which he could not unravel .
it seems to leave the darkness rather blacker than before .
may i offer you a glass of chianti , miss morstan ?
recently he has been drinking hard , and yesterday evening he was very drunk and when i came upstairs there was the key in the door .
it 's a good plan ,
what do you think of it , sir ?
or how could the coarse , rough woman whom i had seen the day before be connected with her ?
that 's the union house ,
from the sierra nevada to nebraska , and from the yellowstone river in the north to the colorado upon the south , is a region of desolation and silence .
within a week of his death captain morstan 's daughter receives a valuable present , which is repeated from year to year , and now culminates in a letter which describes her as a wronged woman .
they 've been looking for him all the time for their revenge , but it is only now that they have begun to find him out .
as her beautiful head fell upon her chest i saw the clear red weal of a whiplash across her neck .
i knew it by his refusal to talk about some episodes in his american life .
do try to bring him .
, lunch s .
tuesday evening !
i 'm not sure about whether i shall go .
he had usually a great many letters , for he was a public man and well known for his kind heart , so that everyone who was in trouble was glad to turn to him .
now and again the moon peeped out for an instant , but clouds were driving over the face of the sky , and just as we came out on the moor a thin rain began to fall .
at the present instant one of the most revered names in england is being besmirched by a blackmailer , and only i can stop a disastrous scandal .
yes , it is strange .
two days ago some repairs were started in the west wing of the building , and my bedroom wall has been pierced , so that i have had to move into the chamber in which my sister died , and to sleep in the very bed in which she slept .
save for this one excursion , he spent his days in long and often solitary walks , or in chatting with a number of village gossips whose acquaintance he had cultivated .
in my own mind i had determined that if i were sure , from the rigidity of his gaze , that it had caught his eye , i would at once spring out , throw my great coat over his head , pinion him , and leave the rest to holmes .
he must have stayed in the room some little time after the murder , for we found blood stained water in the basin , where he had washed his hands , and marks on the sheets where he had deliberately wiped his knife .
do all your successes depend upon this prodigious power of bluff ?
one by one the management of the noble houses of great britain is passing into the hands of our fair cousins from across the atlantic .
was the street empty then ?
her sharp , steep prow cut through the river water and sent two rolling waves to right and to left of us .
sir henry lay insensible where he had fallen .
i should like , for example , to see how far the windows of the bedrooms command the front .
you then
simon sank into a chair and passed his hand over his forehead .
this person is alone and cannot be approached by letter without a breach of that absolute secrecy which is desired .
you remember that we saw the name upon the chart in captain morstan 's possession .
but from you i shall have no secrets .
look here !
by a curious chance you came upon her tresses .
our visitor was an exceedingly alert man , thirty years of age , dressed in a quiet tweed suit , but retaining the erect bearing of one who was accustomed to official uniform .
you do n't mean that !
i have every reason to believe that we shall be in time to stop it .
by the cross of christ i swear it !
nothing at all .
then why did they fly ?
here it is , and you can read for yourself .
this hat has not been brushed for weeks .
arrest me ?
in half an hour , we were clear of the town and hastening down a country road .
she glanced at the iron box .
populus me sibilat , at mihi plaudo ipse domi simul ac nummos contemplor in arca .
after the conversation which i have quoted about barrymore , sir henry put on his hat and prepared to go out .
it was not , however , until we were all in a first class carriage and well started upon our journey to birmingham that i was able to learn what the trouble was which had driven him to sherlock holmes .
he has been a fixture therefore all day .
again he produced a paper .
there is a cab coming to convey you to norwich , mr slaney .
which would suit us down to the ground .
he has been in the habit of lighting his pipe at lamps and gas jets .
we shall have no wolves in our fold .
some people without possessing genius have a remarkable power of stimulating it .
even if i accepted the compliment for myself i could hardly name any volume which would be less likely to lie at the elbow of one of moriarty 's associates .
was it not extraordinary ?
and yet and yet
a beard !
suddenly his followers saw him throw up his hands , as though overcome with astonishment , and on joining him they were affected in the same way by the sight which met their eyes .
and you also , dr watson for the medicos will have a word to say before we finish .
the paper is thin , and the reverse will give the message .
this i promised , and so the matter rests .
and as far off as birmingham ?
his knees were drawn up , his hands thrown out in agony , and from the centre of his broad , brown , upturned throat there projected the white haft of a knife driven blade deep into his body .
if ever you write an account , watson , you can make rabbits serve your turn .
do you mean to say that my mistress has told a lie ?
politics .
surely you do yourself an injustice .
you see ,
it is , of course , important for us to know which tracks may be mr barker 's and which from outside .
he would take the letter to an embassy in london , as likely as not .
well , having seen the back of caulfield gardens , i visited the front and satisfied myself that the bird was indeed flown .
as to the housekeeper , she had heard nothing on the night of the crime .
your hat stand proclaims as much .
she heard mr mccarthy the elder using very strong language to his son , and she saw the latter raise up his hand as if to strike his father .
what was it ?
these details are all of great interest .
you have done all the work in this business .
there will be two or three in the boat .
he disliked and distrusted the sex , but he was always a chivalrous opponent .
however , come what might , i had my money , so i settled down to my task .
we had tried to keep it out of the papers , but there was some rumor in the globe last night .
it seemed to me that a careful examination of the room and the lawn might possibly reveal some traces of this mysterious individual .
the cloud was within fifty yards of where we lay , and we glared at it , all three , uncertain what horror was about to break from the heart of it .
it was in the forenoon , between eleven and twelve .
i think , perhaps , it is almost time that i prepare for the new role i have to play .
in this case , however , they have established a very serious case against the son of the murdered man .
together we made our way down the precipitous slope and approached the body , black and clear against the silvered stones .
when we pulled him aboard the boat he proved to be a young seaman of the name of hudson , who was so burned and exhausted that he could give us no account of what had happened until the following morning .
strong as i look , there is a weak place in my heart , and it does not take much to knock me over .
yes , sir , i am your prisoner ,
it is most irregular but of course an agreement is an agreement .
then take it off .
it was a singular sight which met our eyes .
there was no one on earth outside the joint who knew the secret of the dancing men .
on the other side was the door which communicated with the veranda .
his bridle is missing , so that simpson must have put this on .
now , it was not really difficult , by an inspection of the groove between your left forefinger and thumb , to feel sure that you did not propose to invest your small capital in the gold fields .
he picked a red covered volume from a line of books of reference beside the mantelpiece .
you are of age ,
it was nearer one than twelve , and a wild , bleak night , blowing hard and raining in torrents .
here were these men , to whom murder was familiar , who again and again had struck down the father of the family , some man against whom they had no personal feeling , without one thought of compunction or of compassion for his weeping wife or helpless children , and yet the tender or pathetic in music could move them to tears .
simon .
to that providence , my sons , i hereby commend you , and i counsel you by way of caution to forbear from crossing the moor in those dark hours when the powers of evil are exalted .
what could it be ?
brother mycroft is coming round .
at the foot of the steps a long coil of rope was thrown carelessly together .
he is big enough and old enough to look after himself , and if he is so foolish as to lose himself , i entirely refuse to accept the responsibility of hunting for him .
watson , the gaps are closing rapidly .
for two nights i kept the watch with my punjaubees .
she is of a quiet nature .
yes , you will , dearie .
i 'll bet she meets us at the door of heaven with a big pitcher of water , and a lot of buckwheat cakes , hot , and toasted on both sides , like bob and me was fond of .
holmes leaned back in the carriage , and the conversation ceased .
but you see , sir , them 's not our geese .
, of explaining to her that i was perfectly certain that she held the facts in her possession , and of assuring her that her friend , mrs barclay , might find herself in the dock upon a capital charge unless the matter were cleared up .
where is she now ?
but it is too heavy a task .
no other conclusion was possible .
died august th , .
i 'd a partner , said he ,
i do n't wonder that you should take an interest in it .
what an observant young lady we have come upon .
giving pain to any creature weaker than himself seems to be his one idea of amusement , and he shows quite remarkable talent in planning the capture of mice , little birds , and insects .
he cried
is this handwriting the same as that upon the pearl box addresses ?
gregson and lestrade seemed to be far from satisfied by this assurance , or by the depreciating allusion to the detective police .
in his eyes she eclipses and predominates the whole of her sex .
on the other hand , if all the world was convinced that i was dead they would take liberties , these men , they would soon lay themselves open , and sooner or later i could destroy them .
excellent !
i am ashamed of you , holmes ,
my son is on leave just now , but i did not tell him anything of all this , for his temper is violent , and he is passionately fond of his sister .
now , watson , confess yourself utterly taken aback ,
one day last week on thursday night , to be more exact i found that i could not sleep , having foolishly taken a cup of strong caf noir after my dinner .
let us descend , lestrade .
the banker recoiled in horror .
he ran when he saw his father on the ground .
this was excellent news , watson , for it showed me that i was on the right road .
the county police are at their wits ' end , and i have come up to you as a last resource .
it may have been that his attentions to ettie had been more evident than before , or that they had gradually obtruded themselves into the slow mind of his good german host but , whatever the cause , the boarding house keeper beckoned the young man into his private room and started on the subject without any circumlocution .
you would say the most silent in the world .
they have robbed him of the treasure !
john , show these gentlemen out !
i had an idea that he might , and i took the liberty of bringing the tools with me .
and yet there are a few inferences which are very distinct , and a few others which represent at least a strong balance of probability .
and being of a sociable turn i cultivate a large number of friends .
there 's no safety for anyone until he is under lock and key .
then there is another obvious point .
his only accomplice was one who could never give him away , and the grotesque , inconceivable nature of the device only served to make it more effective .
sir , i cannot find words to thank you , but you shall not find me ungrateful for what you have done .
are you a member of the union ?
it seems most improbable .
they shuffled and lied said that they found it on the moor on tuesday morning .
he tried more than once to break away from the dangerous company which he was keeping , but each time the influence of his friend , sir george burnwell , was enough to draw him back again .
he is the green grocer who brings our vegetables round .
how could i help suspecting him , when i actually saw him with the coronet in his hand ?
this is most important ,
the other , who was secured in a similar fashion , was a tall man in the last stage of emaciation , with several strips of sticking plaster arranged in a grotesque pattern over his face .
what do you make of that , watson ?
broad bars of golden light from the lower windows stretched across the orchard and the moor .
there are plenty of little yachts and yawls at calcutta or madras which would serve our turn well .
what is it ?
if he does not come himself he will send an accomplice .
their concluding words had evidently been some form of sign and countersign .
are you sure of what you say ?
i guess hell must look something like that ,
well , my boy , what do you make of this lot ?
that does not appear probable .
it was a quarter past six when we left baker street , and it still wanted ten minutes to the hour when we found ourselves in serpentine avenue .
only one man knew my secret .
i saw him no more until the evening , when he returned with a slow step and haggard face which assured me that he had made no great progress with his investigation .
pray proceed with your statement .
the face which was turned towards us formed a dark cliff , with ferns and brambles growing in its niches .
i did as he ordered , and when the lawyer arrived i was asked to step up to the room .
i am sure if i had known '
i can only lay the facts before you as far as i know them myself .
but there is some one at the door .
in publishing these short sketches based upon the numerous cases in which my companion 's singular gifts have made us the listeners to , and eventually the actors in , some strange drama , it is only natural that i should dwell rather upon his successes than upon his failures .
apparently not .
good lord !
i would do nothing so foolish .
cried holmes , picking up his hat .
surely one may trust brothers of the lodge .
what do you want me to do ?
yes , yes , here he is , sure enough !
he was very late in returning so late , that i knew that the concert could not have detained him all the time .
what did you do , hopkins , after you had made certain that you had made certain of nothing ?
yes sir charles was very fond of talking about the provisions of his will .
this morning , as the man was buried and the investigation over so far as this room is concerned we thought we could tidy up a bit .
he heard the rustle and murmur of the people round him , and then the voice of mcginty sounded dull and distant through the covering of his ears .
i suggested .
now , mark you , ettie , it will be just a word to you , and when it reaches you , you will drop everything and come right down to the waiting room at the depot and stay there till i come for you .
all right , watson , i do n't intend to meddle .
i am so glad that you have come ,
but i was still more astonished when he told me the object of his visit .
but then how could this letter be trivial and grotesque , as described by the son ?
he rushed into his room in his dressing gown and was back again in a few seconds in a frock coat .
i see many objections to any such theory .
we wish a statement , mr scott eccles , as to the events which led up to the death last night of mr aloysius garcia , of wisteria lodge , near esher .
i could hear the measured tramp of their footsteps sounding through the lonely corridors .
but he has no ambition and no energy .
could there be , i wondered , some radical flaw in my companion 's reasoning .
it was only a glimpse but i have a quick eye for these things , and i never doubted who it was .
i suppose that dr trevelyan has told you of this most unwarrantable intrusion into my rooms
he bowed me out of the room and i went home with my assistant , hardly knowing what to say or do , i was so pleased at my own good fortune .
at present i am only awaiting the return of our colleagues from tunbridge wells , where they are at present engaged in trying for a likely owner to the bicycle .
i 've a cab at the door , and it will n't take us twenty minutes to victoria .
this ground in front belongs to the house , but the woods all round are part of lord southerton 's preserves .
surely that is clear .
a very snug little party they used to make .
but i fear , my dear fellow , that our case will end ingloriously by lestrade hanging our client , which will certainly be a triumph for scotland yard .
come along !
my father had a small factory at coventry , which he enlarged at the time of the invention of bicycling .
everything comes in circles even professor moriarty .
but why would you not let me near you , since there was in truth no infection ?
the money which i had reckoned upon never came to hand , and a premature examination of accounts exposed my deficit .
i can let you in , but your friends must just stop where they are .
well , i must confess to it .
dr mortimer turned the manuscript to the light and read in a high , cracking voice the following curious , old world narrative :
this aneurism of mine makes me easily tired , and the tussle we had half an hour ago has not mended matters .
i 'll say this much , that if stanger got his full deserts there would be more trouble than we need ask for .
pray let me hear it .
i guess you owe me either an apology or else an explanation , mr shafter .
the crudest of writers could invent nothing more crude .
wonderful !
now i found a clean cut in it about three inches long not a mere scratch , but a positive cut .
i have several fresh dancing men pictures for you to examine , and , what is more important , i have seen the fellow .
a man was crouching at the window .
he will hold a card back for years in order to play it at the moment when the stake is best worth winning .
holmes pointed to the street lamp above our heads .
the advertisement was to be answered by letter only .
i suppose you have no hint to give me ?
he felt like a man holding a fierce bloodhound in leash .
i see her ladyship 's waiting maid .
now let us try again .
he took out a ten pound note , and he held it out to me then and there .
still steadily rising , we passed over a narrow granite bridge and skirted a noisy stream which gushed swiftly down , foaming and roaring amid the gray boulders .
i am about to tell you , mr holmes , all that actually occurred , for you already know so much that it is clearly to my interest that you should know all .
there were no signs of the papers .
there were his height and hair and figure , about the same as my own .
you may well look surprised , dr watson but it is this way ,
monday night after nine .
but he 's not long for this world , as you 'll see for yourself the moment that you set eyes on him .
there was a gleam in his eyes and a suppressed excitement in his manner which convinced me , used as i was to his ways , that his hand was upon a clue , though i could not imagine where he had found it .
i turned it over .
where can she be , then , since there is no light in any other room except the kitchen ?
you will kindly close the door ,
the colonel waved his hand towards my friend , and the inspector bowed .
whined the little man .
might the whole story of the cataleptic russian and his son be a concoction of dr trevelyan 's , who has , for his own purposes , been in blessington 's rooms ?
i have not come to any conclusion .
no , sir he has gone to his room , sir do you know , sir ,
here it was that one evening we received a visit from an acquaintance , mr hilton soames , tutor and lecturer at the college of st .
who then but miss burnet , the governess ?
in brixton road , this morning ,
white mason , the local officer , was a personal friend , and hence macdonald had been notified much more promptly than is usual at scotland yard when provincials need their assistance .
the fellow must be within the grasp of the law ?
now , stand there !
if absent , please return wire to sir henry baskerville , northumberland hotel .
the englishman is a patient creature , but at present his temper is a little inflamed , and it would be as well not to try him too far .
come then , darling ,
i will look into them to morrow .
they can put those events together in their minds , and argue from them that something will come to pass .
the lecturer unlocked the outer door and ushered us into his room .
that is very interesting .
william was decoyed up and shot , and had they only got the whole of the note and paid a little more attention to detail in the accessories , it is very possible that suspicion might never have been aroused .
now i must push along , or father will n't trust me with his business any more .
and embedded in it are these very singular enclosures .
entirely .
i say , watson ,
, abstracted from the jewel case of the countess of morcar the valuable gem known as the blue carbuncle .
he was at work again .
the goose we retained until this morning , when there were signs that , in spite of the slight frost , it would be well that it should be eaten without unnecessary delay .
back i went to my hotel , put my head in a basin of cold water , and tried to think it out .
ah , of course .
before ever he had set foot in it , mcmurdo the turbulent had become a character in vermissa .
if mr holmes ai n't here , then mr holmes must find it all out for himself .
when i had him fairly inside my cab , my heart jumped so with joy that i feared lest at this last moment my aneurism might go wrong .
there was a sudden rush and a scuffle , followed by the clash of iron and a cry of pain .
he was a devil incarnate .
just beyond it is a nice little grove of scotch firs , and i used to be very fond of strolling down there , for trees are always a neighborly kind of things .
the exact date is .
a row naturally ensued .
what for ?
i cannot see , however , what it has to do with the death of mr joseph stangerson .
he walked into the room , and as he did so barrymore sprang up from the window with a sharp hiss of his breath and stood , livid and trembling , before us .
it was certainly some appeal to ' elsie .
she returned to her father 's house more light hearted than she had ever been since jack mcmurdo had come into her life .
so i have , said he , and it was awful to hear the tones that he said it in .
his tall , bony figure gave promise of exceptional physical strength , while his great cranium and deep set , lustrous eyes spoke no less clearly of the keen intelligence which twinkled out from behind his bushy eyebrows .
but what was she to do ?
both could be saved if i could but silence that foul tongue .
yes , sir
it was an excursion of some miles across the moor to a place which is so dismal that it might have suggested the story .
i think that there was probably some more tangible cause .
he was ready for him when he came .
it is n't suicide i am thinking of .
mr oldacre had told me that he would like me to have supper with him at nine , as he might not be home before that hour .
twenty long years in that fever ridden swamp , all day at work under the mangrove tree , all night chained up in the filthy convict huts , bitten by mosquitoes , racked with ague , bullied by every cursed black faced policeman who loved to take it out of a white man .
baskerville shuddered as he looked up the long , dark drive to where the house glimmered like a ghost at the farther end .
we find in their places great companies like the railroad or the general iron , who have their directors in new york or philadelphia , and care nothing for our threats .
cried the colonel .
who is there ?
he came up to my room one morning , and plunged into business in an instant .
the baronet has been in communication with the architect who prepared the plans for sir charles , and with a contractor from london , so that we may expect great changes to begin here soon .
so it was said .
it is the murder that we are really investigating , and i tell you that i am gathering all the threads into my hands .
swiftly i threw off my clothes , pulled on those of a beggar , and put on my pigments and wig .
he put his carbine to his shoulder , but i struck him full , and knocked the whole front of his skull in .
i fear this means that there is some mischief afoot .
she was a nonentity .
they got pounds for the goodwill and interest , which was n't near as much as father could have got if he had been alive .
why in my presence , sir ?
never have i had such a shock !
i think twelve thousand pounds is the sum that i owe you , is it not ?
here 's a business !
these are the records of your early work , then ?
i could manage it better if i were alone .
in spite of his considerable wealth he was simple in his personal tastes , and his indoor servants at baskerville hall consisted of a married couple named barrymore , the husband acting as butler and the wife as housekeeper .
well , now , to continue our supposititious case , the couple not necessarily a guilty couple realize after the murderer is gone that they have placed themselves in a position in which it may be difficult for them to prove that they did not themselves either do the deed or connive at it .
who wrote the note ?
you can see the split in the wood now where i hit him .
the body exhibited no traces of violence , and there can be no doubt that the deceased had been the victim of an unfortunate accident , which should have the effect of calling the attention of the authorities to the condition of the riverside landing stages .
i undid his collar , poured the cold water over his face , and raised and sank his arms until he drew a long , natural breath .
he came running out to meet us with a face of horror .
it 's lonesome , when you 're on duty here all day .
it proved to be that of a young gentleman whose name , as it appears from an envelope which was found in his pocket , was john openshaw , and whose residence is near horsham .
as to hayes , i say nothing .
it is otherwise , however , from the housekeeper 's room .
now your mind is easy once again , is it not ?
but i weary you with my hobby .
it is a question of cubic capacity ,
we 've had two tries at him but had no luck , and jim carnaway lost his life over it .
i have led a retired life , and have no friends whom i could appeal to .
you came here .
i shall be glad when you can arrange matters .
precisely so ,
holmes paused irresolute , and then he glanced back at the road which he had just traversed .
just hold out while i fix the derbies .
i know every move of your game .
you bring mrs oakshott here and i 'll answer her , but what have you to do with it ?
holmes shook his clenched hands in the air .
the very rocks have ears and the trees eyes .
how do you know of him then ?
beautiful !
it is certainly ten to one that they go down stream , but we cannot be certain .
does the reasoning strike you as being faulty ?
well , if that 's all you have against him ,
i am sure that you are the last man in the world who would wish to be a spoil sport .
what is your name ?
it was not yet three when we found ourselves in our rooms once more .
what were your plans ?
is it not obvious ?
at that moment who should come down but mordecai smith , the missing owner ?
mr sidney johnson , the senior clerk , met us at the office and received us with that respect which my companion 's card always commanded .
you say that there was a gentleman in the pew .
then with an expression of interest he laid down his cigarette , and carrying the cane to the window , he looked over it again with a convex lens .
it is my treasure and if i can n't have the loot i 'll take darned good care that no one else does .
i was helping uncle sam to make dollars .
i feel that the matter is indeed out of our hands .
we had hardly done so before the driver whipped up his horse , and we plunged away at a furious pace through the foggy streets .
it is what we call a cataract knife ,
and he walks a good deal .
the surgeon , dr somerton , was a fast , sporting young chap , and the other young officers would meet in his rooms of an evening and play cards .
that 's the pinch .
yes , and that is a factor which we must certainly not neglect .
you stand wide , mr mcginty for i warn you i will stand no resistance when i am on duty !
it does not tell us very much , does it ?
we passed up the stair , unlocked the door , followed on down a passage , and found ourselves in front of the barricade which miss hunter had described .
another item had been added to that constant and apparently purposeless series of small mysteries which had succeeded each other so rapidly .
ah , i have it !
there was no sign of a place whence it had been taken .
the doctor has certainly played the game for all it is worth , and one would like to know the reason for such elaborate deception .
you are right , holmes .
you will find in time that it has everything to do with it .
yet his actions were in absurd contrast to the dignity of his dress and features , for he was running hard , with occasional little springs , such as a weary man gives who is little accustomed to set any tax upon his legs .
and now , you see , i had narrowed the field down considerably .
you describe him as bending over the handle bar .
he 's been here some time six weeks at the least .
i was looking out for loiterers in the street , but i saw none .
the scotland yard inspector was still writing in the parlour when holmes interrupted him .
the man 's novel , with which he had read himself to sleep was lying upon the bed , and his pipe was on a chair beside him .
we have our case , and now we only want our man .
i never went .
to think that you you of all men should be standing in my study .
have you ever seen a photograph of her first husband ?
when he might have entered by the door ?
what harm is there in the letters ?
i only saw it because i was looking for it .
you are not coming .
the lodge sign was given and exchanged as they met .
very good , mr holmes .
at first he had shown some disposition to assert his own position , but now he was overcome with admiration , and ready to follow without question wherever holmes led .
the distinction is clear .
as far as i know , there have been only three accounts in the public press : that in the journal de geneve on may th , , the reuter 's despatch in the english papers on may th , and finally the recent letter to which i have alluded .
well , now , let us put ourselves in the place of jonathan small .
the colonel and i stared at him in amazement .
as to mrs st .
as you can imagine , i was utterly taken aback by such an address .
think of mycroft 's note , of the admiralty , the cabinet , the exalted person who waits for news .
i was convinced that the initials ' p .
we are certainly in luck ,
dear me , watson ,
not a soul , not one soul , not my nearest and dearest , knew that i was playing it .
i guessed as much .
it 's business that may put something into your pocket , ' said the other .
the man was dying dying from hunger and from thirst .
but it 's well to make certain .
none the less , with your permission , i should be much interested to hear his account .
nothing was to be lost by following his advice .
was under secretary for the colonies in a late administration .
it was some time before i found out where my two gentlemen were living but i inquired and inquired until at last i dropped across them .
she opened the door herself , a middle aged , graceful woman , and it gave me joy to see how tenderly her arm stole round the other 's waist and how motherly was the voice in which she greeted her .
i should want to inspect the letters , of course .
it records an absolutely unique experience in the career both of mr sherlock holmes and of myself .
lestrade stared .
from this convenient retreat , the watchers were being watched and the trackers tracked .
if ever a man was three parts mad with terror , that man 's name is pinner .
i cleaned myself up , got back to land , and joined my ship without a soul having a suspicion of what had passed .
suppose that this man boone had thrust neville st .
it ran , if i remember right , ' sent the pips to a , b , and c ' that is , sent the society 's warning to them .
a horn handled clasp knife was lying in a pool of blood beside him .
will pocket all the credit .
there 's moorhouse , first reserve , but he is trained as a half , and he always edges right in on to the scrum instead of keeping out on the touchline .
hence every man feared his neighbour , and none spoke of the things which were nearest his heart .
you just wait a bit .
a coincidence !
you 'll go off and he , poor devil , will have to stand the racket , and lucky if he gets off with his life .
search me ,
to single out the very strongest points in the young man 's favour .
did you fasten all the windows ?
the funds are good at the moment ,
it was a long document , written in the french language , and containing twenty six separate articles .
but i 'll humour you .
still , i must ask you to humor me a little further .
his features were peaky and sallow , and his little pointed beard was thready and ill nourished .
i nearly fainted with the horror of it , and yet i had to keep a bold and smiling face for well i knew that if i did not it would be out of my house that they would come next with their bloody hands and it would be my little fred that would be screaming for his father .
you have made two blunders in as many minutes .
he cried .
i know .
i raised it , and this was what i read , roughly scrawled in pencil : dr watson has gone to coombe tracey .
his presence had something to do with the unhappy issue of my marriage .
how you ever came to learn that i had spoken with morris at all ?
this passage is printed on the examination paper , and it would naturally be an immense advantage if the candidate could prepare it in advance .
you are proud of your brains , holmes , are you not ?
there was no slit through which a knife could be passed to raise the bar .
i looked at the broad plumed hat , the curling love locks , the white lace collar , and the straight , severe face which was framed between them .
we can only regard it as a special providence that you should chance to be here at the time , for in all england you are the one man we need .
it cannot be long before we know it .
what have we here ?
i tried one or two explanations , but , indeed , i was completely puzzled myself .
down the strand the lamps were but misty splotches of diffused light which threw a feeble circular glimmer upon the slimy pavement .
it is winwood reade 's ' martyrdom of man .
i cried , approaching him .
we know that this woman has led a most quiet and respectable life at penge and here for the last twenty years .
but he was dead before he fell .
this time you may do it with safety .
as to his relations with women , they appeared to have been promiscuous but superficial .
jewels worth half a million missing .
old mr farquhar , from whom i purchased it , had at one time an excellent general practice but his age , and an affliction of the nature of st .
yes , toby was the name .
kindly turn round and wave him away like that .
he was rather the worse for liquor .
then do so .
air and scenery perfect .
i think you must recollect me , mr athelney jones ,
that is the exact situation .
on inquiring at number we found that the house belonged to a respectable paperhanger , named keswick , and that no one of the name either of sawyer or dennis had ever been heard of there .
now vincent square .
how about this rope ?
gone , eh !
he was carefully examining the foolscap , upon which the words were pasted , holding it only an inch or two from his eyes .
rising and lighting his pipe .
there was a little passage in front of me , unpapered and uncarpeted , which turned at a right angle at the farther end .
you are all wrong .
i do n't think any of our heads would have come up to his shoulder , and i am sure that he could not have measured less than six and a half feet .
i am not retained by the police to supply their deficiencies .
but really i think that we are wandering rather far from the point .
sir james , sir !
but i have seen the mark on douglas many times this last ten years .
a few seconds later a roar like thunder burst upon our ears , and as the smoke thinned away there was no sign left of the gloria scott .
i am delighted to hear it ,
i observed that books were piled on the floor at all other points , but that one bookcase was left clear .
well , you see the hills beyond ?
i come now to the body of the young man .
park lane did little to clear up the problem in which i was interested .
but the shock of the night 's adventures had shattered his nerves , and before morning he lay delirious in a high fever under the care of dr mortimer .
it 's all the same to me .
only a joke , as like as not .
oh , but i have been sorely tried this day !
von bork was a strong , self contained man , but it was easy to see that the news had shaken him .
as its soft rhythm died away , holmes set to work upon the lower door .
when i got to the door
i was also aware of that ,
she would have come .
it was you who told me first that the cottage was occupied .
but if a man had a danger hanging over him , and knew what it was , do n't you think he would turn to the police for protection ?
i 'll knock at the window .
then your wish is easily granted , for there is your first sight of the moor ,
the seven men sat frozen in their seats .
our rate at present is fifty three and a half miles an hour .
by all means .
i fancy that this grey house on the right must be the lodge .
he made no remark , but the matter remained in his thoughts , for he stood in front of the fire afterwards with a thoughtful face , smoking his pipe , and casting an occasional glance at the message .
there was a straight passage , dimly lighted , which led from the room in which i had been working , and was the only exit from it .
i even distinguished that one of them was marked with the name of ' hyams , ' who was oldacres tailor .
could n't say , i am sure , sir i did n't hear no one else .
from under the door there curled a little red ribbon of blood , which had meandered across the passage and formed a little pool along the skirting at the other side .
i rode down to see what it was , and the cold struck through my heart when i found it was dawson 's wife , all cut into ribbons , and half eaten by jackals and native dogs .
the child stood beside him , holding on to the skirt of his coat , and said nothing but looked all round her with the wondering questioning gaze of childhood .
nothing more .
but here an unexpected and singular difficulty presented itself .
the name , you see , is in perfectly black ink , which has dried itself .
yes , to day .
the chamber in which we found ourselves was about ten feet one way and six the other .
he had obtained a large ordnance map of the neighbourhood , and this he brought into my room , where he laid it out on the bed , and , having balanced the lamp in the middle of it , he began to smoke over it , and occasionally to point out objects of interest with the reeking amber of his pipe .
she cried .
upon the floor , close to the body , was lying a singular club of hard carved wood with a bone handle .
mcmurdo , who had been watching his companion very narrowly , relaxed somewhat in his bearing .
you will send two good men , they will be taken charge of by treasurer higgins of this lodge , whose address you know .
just the same old teddy marvin , at your service .
when i came down to our room i found the breakfast laid and homes pouring out the coffee .
exactly .
not the countess of morcar 's blue carbuncle !
will find some sure means of communications .
we can follow him to morrow .
i believe that on the day of the murder adair had discovered that moran was cheating .
then , as i approached the door , she seized my sleeve and pulled me back with convulsive strength .
the words ,
that white one with the barred tail , right in the middle of the flock .
the more i thought of it the more extraordinary did my companion 's hypothesis , that the man had been poisoned , appear .
that depends on whether you are going on the moor ,
then it comes to this ,
a very sensible reply , watson .
for two hours , with most intense concentration , holmes examined every object in turn , but his face showed that his quest was not a successful one .
their escort did not halt , however , but pushed on , followed by a great crowd of mormons , until they reached a waggon , which was conspicuous for its great size and for the gaudiness and smartness of its appearance .
he had hoped that his wife might lure sir charles to his ruin , but here she proved unexpectedly independent .
your cases have indeed been of the greatest interest to me ,
i 'd pay for it and pay well , ' said he , ' if i could get some stuff that would suit my editor .
at first they had shown some secrecy in their arrangements but at the time which this narrative describes their proceedings were extraordinarily open , for the repeated failure of the law had proved to them that , on the one hand , no one would dare to witness against them , and on the other they had an unlimited number of stanch witnesses upon whom they could call , and a well filled treasure chest from which they could draw the funds to engage the best legal talent in the state .
it is not my intention to be fulsome , but i confess that i covet your skull .
if i used my own some of these dunderheads would recognize it , and want to meddle in the affair .
and you do n't want your name to appear ?
ah , yes , surely this is the very thing !
the daughter burst into tears .
finally i was left in doubt as to whether it was animal or human .
this gaudy relationship did him little good at school .
he was closely followed by an inspector in uniform , and by the still palpitating thaddeus sholto .
he wore a ruddy tinted tweed suit and had the weather beaten appearance of one who has spent most of his time in the open air , and yet there was something in his steady eye and the quiet assurance of his bearing which indicated the gentleman .
we all filed into the front room and sat round the central table while the inspector unlocked a square tin box and laid a small heap of things before us .
may i ask who has bought the property of this man that we have driven out of the district ?
then it was my turn , and i went through him as if he had been a rotten pumpkin .
because it is my desire .
with three long hops i was on him .
we are all in your hands , mr holmes , and you must tell us exactly what you would like done .
he had ceased to moan as we laid him down , and a glance showed me that for him at least our aid had come too late .
all day , as i drove upon my round , i turned over the case in my mind and found no explanation which appeared to me to be adequate .
the old man sat with his mouth open , staring wildly at holmes .
the young fellow seemed pleased at the suggestion , and his dark eyes sparkled with pleasure .
i have already told you that your reports reached me rapidly , being forwarded instantly from baker street to coombe tracey .
how do you explain it , and ai n't you ashamed to see your men go down like this ?
sir henry and dr mortimer were , however , in london , on their way to that long voyage which had been recommended for the restoration of his shattered nerves .
yes , of course you have .
can you tell me where ?
you have done a good deal of digging by your callosities .
fire if he raises his hand ,
we have only to find to whom that telegram is addressed ,
it 's a dirty business , ' the other answered .
i wish to have a quiet word with you , bradstreet .
we will see what the doctor says , i answered .
and he had been married five years .
i 'm hoping we will get our work done before they get poking their noses into it and messing up all the trails .
afterwards , mr jonas oldacre led me into his bedroom , in which there stood a heavy safe .
hurry hurry , before things get disarranged .
mr reuben hayes 's manner was far from gracious , but holmes took it with admirable good humour .
then perhaps you would mention that i propose to do so .
suddenly as we looked at her we saw a dense black cloud of smoke shoot up from her , which hung like a monstrous tree upon the sky line .
thank god !
thank you ,
yes , sir for he had started to england just before it arrived .
it is one of several indications which enabled me to fix the date .
there is one of the very utmost importance , however .
his age may have been fifty or thereabouts , for his black , curly hair was thickly shot with gray .
you have no explanation yourself of the tragedy ?
three doors faced up upon the second floor , and it was from the central of these that the sinister sounds were issuing , sinking sometimes into a dull mumble and rising again into a shrill whine .
with a glow of admiration i watched holmes unrolling his case of instruments and choosing his tool with the calm , scientific accuracy of a surgeon who performs a delicate operation .
it was short and terse , the warning , as i now read it to my companion :
are you of stout heart ?
as the words were said he felt two hard points in front of his eyes , pressing upon them so that it appeared as if he could not move forward without a danger of losing them .
i have seen him like this before .
twice i have with my own ears heard the sound which resembled the distant baying of a hound .
excellent ,
it was a kindly thought ,
as you value your life or your reason keep away from the moor .
snake catcher is what i call them , and teddy is amazing quick on cobras .
you know the story of the hound ?
maybe we 'll meet in lodge one of these evenings .
if you handle it as well as you did the last , you will n't be wrong .
of course , it is as you say .
the attitude had drawn all the stagnant blood to the face , and no man could have recognized that distorted liver colored countenance but his height , his dress , and his hair were all sufficient to show my client , when we had drawn the body up , that it was indeed his missing butler .
i must compliment you .
then they carried me in .
no , mcmurdo ?
some touch of the artist wells up within me , and calls insistently for a well staged performance .
with unerring instinct jefferson hope picked his way among the great boulders and along the bed of a dried up watercourse , until he came to the retired corner , screened with rocks , where the faithful animals had been picketed .
what happened was this .
no , here .
have you the tools ?
because i love you , mary , as truly as ever a man loved a woman .
have you any suggestion to make ?
mr sherlock holmes can return to london by the morning train .
i did as he directed , and was instantly conscious of a strong tarry smell .
i satisfied myself that it was a cab and not a private carriage by the narrow gauge of the wheels .
you must know that my grandfather had two sons my uncle elias and my father joseph .
i have a new writing table with a fine surface of red leather .
but this paragon has one fault .
they are both old and tried servants .
then you can bring round the bicycle .
the main article is a large writing table with a fixed bureau .
i wish you would come back with me , inspector ,
i 've planned it all .
the premier looked at holmes with twinkling eyes .
what do you mean ?
she had the surest information that of late he had , when the fit was on him , made use of an opium den in the farthest east of the city .
at the church door , however , they separated , he driving back to the temple , and she to her own house .
he walked slowly from step to step , holding the lamp , and shooting keen glances to right and left .
watson would tell you that i have only just recovered from a severe illness ,
if i had only been there !
results without causes are much more impressive .
simpson in his flight had dropped his cravat , and straker had picked it up with some idea , perhaps , that he might use it in securing the horse 's leg .
the boy returned with a telegram , which holmes handed to me .
perhaps we had better proceed to business , then ,
by all accounts , mr mcginty , you may have to answer for your own conduct some of these days ,
surely , with stains as well as the track to guide us , he cannot escape us now .
this is the envelope ,
i was certainly surprised to find you there .
i think i can promise that none of you will be troubled in the matter .
it is expected that a testimonial of some sort will be presented to the two officers as a fitting recognition of their services .
holmes glanced at it , raised his eyebrows , and handed it over to me .
he whispered ,
yes , a storm is approaching .
the prime minister nodded his acquiescence .
the great ordeal was in front of us at last we were about to make our final effort , and yet holmes had said nothing , and i could only surmise what his course of action would be .
i appreciate your conduct in coming here before you spoke to anyone else ,
it was my custom to do this myself , for , as i have explained , sir eustace was not always to be trusted .
there is something in it which fascinates me extremely .
but who are all these ?
there 's only one set of affairs that you 'll hear of in these parts , and that 's the affairs of the scowrers .
you can leave the talking to me .
do n't trouble yourself about it , mr sholto ,
the statement of the case
i 'd like to know ,
when my dear wife died i felt that he was all i had to love .
it will require some checking and you have little time to check it .
but , my dear mrs smith ,
because that is my special hobby .
i ai n't afeared of anything on this side o the grave but i thought that maybe it was him that died o the typhoid inspecting the drains what killed him .
you have a theory ?
two hansoms were standing at the door , and as i entered the passage i heard the sound of voices from above .
i have devised seven separate explanations , each of which would cover the facts as far as we know them .
have you any objection to my closing your shutters ?
on another occasion an old white haired gentleman had an interview with my companion and on another a railway porter in his velveteen uniform .
he laughed as he spoke , and i saw with a thrill that his second tooth upon the left hand side had been very badly stuffed with gold .
you like this weather ?
holmes turned on the step and held up something in his hand .
this way , watson ,
the deadlock was broken , however , by a woman 's voice .
so his name was sherlock holmes , was it ?
o . then he sealed it and addressed it to captain james calhoun , barque ' lone star , ' savannah , georgia .
i may be very obtuse , holmes , but i fail to see what this suggests .
he had apparently rushed across the lawn , for his toe marks were much deeper than his heels .
most preposterous !
he was sitting up in bed , horribly agitated , for he had heard enough to convince him that something terrible had occurred .
if you were asked to wear any dress which we might give you , you would not object to our little whim .
he was a tall and stately person , scrupulously dressed , with a drawn , thin face , and a nose which was grotesquely curved and long .
never for an instant did i dream of disowning her as my child .
the authorities are excellent at amassing facts , though they do not always use them to advantage .
if you come home with me , all will be well .
there are hardly any data ,
if she knew , why should she call the police in ?
it 's the devil 's own luck !
i have as much more to add to it .
excellent .
without going into details , i may say that it defined the position of great britain towards the triple alliance , and fore shadowed the policy which this country would pursue in the event of the french fleet gaining a complete ascendancy over that of italy in the mediterranean .
i was dependent upon him for food and clean linen .
it is of no importance to us , however , since the decanters were full , and it had therefore not been used .
these pretended journeys to france were rather cumbrous .
his appearance was as ghastly as ever , but all trace of delirium had left him and he spoke in a feeble voice , it is true , but with even more than his usual crispness and lucidity .
oh , yes , i really mean it .
that is the only drawback which we have found to her , but we believe her to be a thoroughly good girl in every way .
i fear there is some dark ending to our quest ,
i had never known him to be wrong and yet the keenest reasoner may occasionally be deceived .
i must really apologize , hopkins ,
that 's my reading of the first half .
yes i had given miss harrison instructions to lock the door on the outside and take the key with her when she went to bed .
a murderous attack ?
cried the clerk .
and yet they are inert .
may i ask how i can help you ?
even now in the stillness of death , the huge jaws seemed to be dripping with a bluish flame and the small , deep set , cruel eyes were ringed with fire .
and yet he lied as he said it , for it chanced that after breakfast i met mrs barrymore in the long corridor with the sun full upon her face .
other things being equal ,
side by side on the narrow shawl knelt the two wanderers , the little prattling child and the reckless , hardened adventurer .
the young man stared .
cattle on this side path .
at last i saw them hire a boat and start for a row , for it was a very hot day , and they thought , no doubt , that it would be cooler on the water .
that left foot of yours with its inward twist is all over the place .
no , no , we should have him loitering here always .
a short railway journey and a shorter walk brought us to fairbank , the modest residence of the great financier .
it is this infernal st .
in every direction upon these moors there were traces of some vanished race which had passed utterly away , and left as its sole record strange monuments of stone , irregular mounds which contained the burned ashes of the dead , and curious earthworks which hinted at prehistoric strife .
about a month then .
one was the harpoon with which the deed was committed .
he will see that you are rewarded , treasure or no .
finally , after much debate , they concluded that my murder was too dangerous .
indeed !
scanlan descended , and mcmurdo was left once again to his thoughts .
no , i fear that even now
i will .
in it lay some table linen and a large corkscrew .
indeed , holmes !
yes , yes : someone has passed along ,
all these i may sketch out at some future date , but none of them present such singular features as the strange train of circumstances which i have now taken up my pen to describe .
the young woman came to the door last evening mistook the house , she did .
i am at my wit 's end .
well , have you anything more ?
now is the dramatic moment of fate , watson , when you hear a step upon the stair which is walking into your life , and you know not whether for good or ill .
what then ?
with her was her daughter , a pale , fair haired girl , whose eyes blazed defiantly at us as she told us that she was glad that her father was dead , and that she blessed the hand which had struck him down .
as to garcia ,
and you connect this attack with your lodger ?
who delivered it ?
one of them was still soft .
did she know where her husband was ?
but at least i shall follow it to the end .
holmes was lost in thought , and once or twice he walked over to the window and stared earnestly out .
it is of the first importance ,
did he say anything before he died ?
it is peculiarly strong and stiff .
holmes chuckled and rubbed his hands .
wanted , a woman of good address , attired like a lady .
with a last word of caution that he should say nothing as to our researches , we turned our faces westward once more .
your husband , as far as you could see , had his ordinary clothes on ?
there is no bird in the steel blue heaven , no movement upon the dull , grey earth above all , there is absolute silence .
did he ever strike you as being crazy this brother of hers ?
it seemed to me that he was making desperate efforts to restrain a convulsive attack of laughter .
his connection with the stapletons can be traced for several years , as far back as the school mastering days , so that he must have been aware that his master and mistress were really husband and wife .
they had gone a mile or two when they passed one of the night shepherds upon the moorlands , and they cried to him to know if he had seen the hunt .
might i ask for a photograph of mr john straker ?
she went to his house , as he had often begged her to do , and made her way into the room which he used as his sitting room .
he rose and stretched his legs , as though to assure himself that they were free once more .
already the first thin wisps of it were curling across the golden square of the lighted window .
i am afraid that that is quite impossible ,
how could he be placed there ?
of course it is hard to say that .
and she would need to be ,
holmes held it out on his open palm in the glare of the electric light .
the astonished detective read the note aloud .
another day two at the most and i have my case complete , but until then guard your charge as closely as ever a fond mother watched her ailing child .
the shadow has moved !
his residence and principal consulting room is at kennington road , but he has a branch surgery and dispensary at lower brixton road , two miles away .
you were told , no doubt .
it is obviously an attempt to convey secret information .
there is one question which you can answer with more authority than anyone else in the world , and it may make a very great difference to me .
adair 's mother had returned from australia to undergo the operation for cataract , and she , her son ronald , and her daughter hilda were living together at park lane .
well , you can easily think that that made me prick up my ears , for the business has not been over good for some years , and an extra couple of hundred would have been very handy .
we are going to riding thorpe manor ,
this crime is from london , not from america .
i only looked in as i passed ,
i have nothing in the world against you , my good man ,
as he spoke the gleam of the side lights of a carriage came round the curve of the avenue .
it is a murder , then ?
lattice paned , lead framework , three separate windows , one swinging on hinge , and large enough to admit a man .
what did she do on re entering her father 's house ?
well , dear , it 's not so bad as you think .
you wish to employ me as a consulting detective ?
the letter , then , is from a certain foreign potentate who has been ruffled by some recent colonial developments of this country .
i 'll join you at lunch if i am able .
where are you from ?
say , did god make this country ?
by the way , you seem to have quite a suite of spare rooms up there , and one of them has the shutters up .
we had arranged no plan of campaign , but the baronet is a man to whom the most direct way is always the most natural .
it was evident to us that all pursuit was in vain until the fog had lifted .
i feel twenty years younger , holmes .
i offered the lady marriage , but she refused it on the grounds that such a match might mar my career .
from that evening she has utterly vanished .
there was no name on his clothing , and nothing in his pockets save an apple , some string , a shilling map of london , and a photograph .
i had just taken the paper and was locking the cupboard , when the young man seized me .
i fear , watson , that all our expectations come to nothing .
it seems the very maddest , queerest thing that ever happened to me .
what bodymaster ?
you have an aortic aneurism !
terror not beauty was what sprang first to the eye as our fair visitor stood framed for an instant in the open door .
what would he do next ?
ah , you find it so , mr lestrade !
these , though known for their valour and their breed , were whimpering in a cluster at the head of a deep dip or goyal , as we call it , upon the moor , some slinking away and some , with starting hackles and staring eyes , gazing down the narrow valley before them .
how did he come ?
hold it to the glass !
his face had set into granite firmness .
two letters one addressed to e .
an excellent start !
it lay where he had dropped it when he was first attacked .
i ejaculated .
his head was down and his shoulders rounded , as he put every ounce of energy that he possessed on to the pedals .
the note was sent to william .
as he approached his farm , he was surprised to see a horse hitched to each of the posts of the gate .
oh , it was awful to see !
then with a sudden impulsive gesture he plucked a photograph from his breast pocket and threw it on the rustic table before us .
i have known something of him before .
a fifth share !
she was never , as i think i have said , ostentatiously affectionate , but she was heard by the coachman chatting with the colonel in a friendly fashion .
white mason was a quiet , comfortable looking person in a loose tweed suit , with a clean shaved , ruddy face , a stoutish body , and powerful bandy legs adorned with gaiters , looking like a small farmer , a retired gamekeeper , or anything upon earth except a very favourable specimen of the provincial criminal officer .
joshua stone , nether walsling .
i left him an excellent mark in the window , and , having warned the police that they might be needed by the way , watson , you spotted their presence in that doorway with unerring accuracy i took up what seemed to me to be a judicious post for observation , never dreaming that he would choose the same spot for his attack .
pon my word , watson , you are coming along wonderfully .
what are those latticed windows at this end ?
it is obvious , therefore , that i cannot do better than get away for the few days which remain before the police are at liberty to act .
boscombe valley is a country district not very far from ross , in herefordshire .
the sawed gun was not more than two foot long one could carry it easily under one 's coat .
i did not say that i had read all the letter .
he never allowed godfrey a shilling in his life , for he is an absolute miser , but it will all come to him right enough .
may day , belonging to the liverpool , dublin , and london steam packet company .
colonel wardlaw 's pugilist .
it is not easy to express the inexpressible ,
there had been a furtive step past the door .
perhaps there are points which have escaped your machiavellian intellect .
he smiled gently .
there , dimly outlined at the top window , i could see the shadow of a head , a woman 's head , gazing tensely , rigidly , out into the night , waiting with breathless suspense for the renewal of that interrupted message .
i will keep your confession , and if mccarthy is condemned i shall be forced to use it .
game for a morning drive ?
at this instant there was a sound at the door .
i understand that a stable boy sleeps there alone every night .
i am immensely indebted to you .
i will endeavour to do so .
excellent !
no , indeed , martha .
i was never more serious in my life .
the country policeman was unnerved and troubled by the tremendous responsibility which had come so suddenly upon him .
if so , why is it not among his papers ?
to a great mind , nothing is little ,
it is also my custom , to advance to my young ladies half their salary beforehand , so that they may meet any little expenses of their journey and their wardrobe .
good heavens !
of warning , mr holmes ?
have you been in it since your adventure ?
you say that she must have come back this way ?
if our door were in the hands of the sepoys the place must fall , and the women and children be treated as they were in cawnpore .
he can n't lie in the street .
the local police had to be called in , they had to communicate with scotland yard , hopkins had to go out , and he in turn had to send for me .
is in europe .
i deduced a ventilator .
moriarty supplied him liberally with money , and used him only in one or two very high class jobs , which no ordinary criminal could have undertaken .
what is his name ?
sir henry 's falling in love could do no harm to anyone except sir henry .
handsome ?
a crocodile took me , just as i was half way across , and nipped off my right leg as clean as a surgeon could have done it , just above the knee .
then holmes hurried with a cushion for his head , and i with brandy for his lips .
it is an old trick .
soames will be in a dreadful fidget until we are able to tell him something positive .
one last word , brother mcmurdo ,
the man needed the rope .
upon the fourth day there appeared a long telegram from paris which seemed to solve the whole question .
i live , as you see , with some little atmosphere of elegance around me .
a fortnight went by , during which i frequently found my thoughts turning in her direction and wondering what strange side alley of human experience this lonely woman had strayed into .
you come to a london house agent !
yet we survey the ground round the scene of the tragedy .
it is as well that the servants do not sleep in the house .
it 's awful , mr holmes simply awful i wonder my hair is n't gray .
whispered the director .
still looking for your boot ?
as soon as i get my kit .
i shall never do that ,
was it not very extraordinary that you should do this on the very day when there were these papers inside ?
i suppose one can tone down to it , but i feel a bit out of the picture at present .
father was a plumber in the tottenham court road , and he left a tidy business behind him , which mother carried on with mr hardy , the foreman but when mr windibank came he made her sell the business , for he was very superior , being a traveller in wines .
be in birmingham to morrow at one ,
he was always hideous , but he looks more awful than ever now , for he appears to have had an accident and he is much disfigured .
i rushed madly from the room on to the landing .
that done , we gradually began to settle down and to accommodate ourselves to our new surroundings .
my eyes fell upon the sheep , and i asked a question which , rather to my surprise , showed that my surmise was correct .
what do you make of this fellow 's scribble ?
professor coram was still in bed , for when the weather is bad he seldom rises before midday .
so , although , as you say , there are many hundreds of statues in london , it is very probable that these three were the only ones in that district .
i have a vague remembrance of his gaunt limbs , his earnest face , and the rise and fall of his bow .
we are now , actually within the hydraulic press , and it would be a particularly unpleasant thing for us if anyone were to turn it on .
you will not wonder , watson , that my first act on entering your rooms was to close your shutters , and that i have been compelled to ask your permission to leave the house by some less conspicuous exit than the front door .
i can trace each of the busts now from the beginning .
i ought to make you sign a paper to that effect .
this small clump of buildings here is the hamlet of grimpen , where our friend dr mortimer has his headquarters .
suddenly he raised his bearded face , saw us close to him , and pulled up , springing from his machine .
but everything went wrong with us .
here is a condensation of a few of them :
that bears out his story .
thank you , watson the matches !
do you know him ?
you are probably aware that fuller 's earth is a valuable product , and that it is only found in one or two places in england ?
there was no other place where he could hide , so he popped in behind this curtain .
yes , sir , he is still with us .
she 's been fresh painted , black with two red streaks .
there is a woodcock , i believe .
i gave it up at last and off i went to norwood .
your thoughts move a bit too quick for me , mr holmes .
but here are three separate tracks of the same feet .
when the whip poor will calls three times .
then came the death of this ronald adair .
the dog sniffed round for an instant , and then with a shrill whine of excitement started off down the street , tugging at his leash in his efforts to go faster .
someone seems to be very deeply interested in your movements .
i knew that barrymore walked about nights , and i had a mind to speak to him about it ,
if you will permit me , colonel , i will leave my friend watson and you , and i will step round with the inspector to test the truth of one or two little fancies of mine .
these good people were absolutely ignorant that their land contained that which was quite as valuable as a gold mine .
to my bedroom .
i took his money ,
what happened afterward you know .
we were both in the photograph .
now , however , we were beginning to come among continuous streets , where laborers and dockmen were already astir , and slatternly women were taking down shutters and brushing door steps .
this sounds serious .
is that an english thorn ?
my wife had gone over there , and had asked the servant to call her if i should return .
beside him lay the heavy poker , bent into a curve by the concussion .
go on with your story ,
how came you to write it ?
then my senses and my voice came back to me , while a crushing weight of responsibility seemed in an instant to be lifted from my soul .
tomorrow morning i shall find my way to coombe tracey , and if i can see this mrs laura lyons , of equivocal reputation , a long step will have been made towards clearing one incident in this chain of mysteries .
mr holmes !
a hundred and six and a quarter to a hundred and five and seven eighths .
certainly the incident was unusual .
well , if a man can stride four and a half feet without the smallest effort , he can n't be quite in the sere and yellow .
then , for pity 's sake , tell me what was the cause of my sister 's death .
you and i , watson , we have done our part .
miss morstan had remained behind with the frightened housekeeper .
no one could hear it .
in this i fancy that in any case he made a miscalculation , and that , if we had not been there , his doom would none the less have been sealed .
all the time i was on the lookout for a chance of escape but it is hundreds of miles from any other land , and there is little or no wind in those seas : so it was a terribly difficult job to get away .
our course now seems pretty clear ,
barclay , who died the other day , was sergeant in the same company as myself , and the belle of the regiment , ay , and the finest girl that ever had the breath of life between her lips , was nancy devoy , the daughter of the color sergeant .
we hurried together down the stairs and into the street .
the mere feeling of possession has been so dear to me that i could not bear to share it with another .
you had best wake lucy .
fritz !
she mounted a stair , pushed open a door , and found herself in your room .
come into the arbour here and let us discuss it together .
well , gentlemen , i was standing with her just inside the window , in all innocence , as god is my judge , when he rushed like a madman into the room , called her the vilest name that a man could use to a woman , and welted her across the face with the stick he had in his hand .
let us continue our reconstruction .
to my surprise the question provoked a burst of anger from the salesman .
only when i pressed the cold muzzle of the revolver to his temple did he at last understand that resistance was vain .
is an excellent argument with gentlemen who can twist steel pokers into knots .
by this time the whole house was astir , for i had raised my voice in my anger .
there is one remarkable point , however , which will no doubt strike you .
exactly .
altamont has a nice taste in wines , and he took a fancy to my tokay .
i do not think flora would hurt a fly .
does he always guard the premises in this way ?
a chaotic case , my dear watson ,
my dear fellow , how can you possibly be so sure of that ?
it is surely cyclopides .
it was a joke , my good sir a practical joke , nothing more ,
ah , here are some cigarettes .
ten minutes ' talk with you , my good sir ,
i may add that his whole debts at the present moment , as far as we have been able to ascertain , amount to pounds s .
i confess that i never imagined that the effect could be so sudden and so severe .
it is a coolie disease from sumatra a thing that the dutch know more about than we , though they have made little of it up to date .
it 's a question whether i shall live to the assizes , so it matters little to me , but i should wish to spare alice the shock .
and it was at this moment that there occurred a most strange and unexpected thing .
then it amounts to this , mr soames : that , unless the indian student recognized the roll as being proofs , the man who tampered with them came upon them accidentally without knowing that they were there .
i am very busy just now , but i will find time to make some inquiries into your case .
not at all .
the diagrams , the violin case , and the pipe rack even the persian slipper which contained the tobacco all met my eyes as i glanced round me .
well , obviously it could not have been meant for the son .
for example ?
would he not have hidden a couple , had he desired to give the idea that they had gone off upon them ?
i knew that he would be true to me , for i knew one or two things about him so i made up my mind to go right on to kilburn , where he lived , and take him into my confidence .
for some little time his eyes rested thoughtfully upon the sinewy forearm and wrist all dotted and scarred with innumerable puncture marks .
there are five sovereigns here , which will , i hope , be a sufficient fee .
where is he ?
you perceive the devilish cunning of it , for really it would be almost impossible to make a case against the real murderer .
you shall have it then .
only to ask what charge you intend to prefer ?
it was the rock of gibraltar , their largest and best boat .
no doubt you see the significance of this discovery of mine ?
if these conditions are too hard , then go back to norfolk , and leave me to the lonely life in which you found me .
then i met mary herself and met her again .
having first endangered it .
while a horse was being put into a trap at the local inn , we snatched a hurried breakfast , and so we were all ready for business when we at last arrived at yoxley old place .
that you have some reason for washing your hands of the matter .
miss stoner turned white to the lips as she listened .
precisely .
she turned and had disappeared in a few minutes among the scattered boulders , while i , with my soul full of vague fears , pursued my way to baskerville hall .
miss harrison ,
this fellow may be very clever ,
well , he carried over this one first , and he copied it .
but i forget that you are yourself one of them .
when our illustrious visitors had departed holmes lit his pipe in silence and sat for some time lost in the deepest thought .
no friend of yours , miss hunter ?
well , yes .
we came shortly after sir charles settled .
i prayed , as i walked back along the gray , lonely road , that my friend might soon be freed from his preoccupations and able to come down to take this heavy burden of responsibility from my shoulders .
i do n't take much stock of detectives in novels chaps that do things and never let you see how they do them .
that is also possible .
how little you know of me !
i murmured .
in order to negotiate with him they have to get an interpreter , and they pitch upon this mr melas , having used some other one before .
holmes broke in impatiently .
she rose , and i was again conscious of that quick , questioning glance with which she had just surveyed us .
indeed i have , sir i am a quiet woman and live a retired life .
i am dr grimesby roylott , of stoke moran .
in the centre of this room there was an upright beam , which had been placed at some period as a support for the old worm eaten baulk of timber which spanned the roof .
her thin hands clenched , and her worn face blanched with the passion of her hatred .
is that convenient to you , watson ?
we shall see .
i am not very clear yet who you are or what you are but you 've said enough to make it very clear that we shall want you at the yard .
i argued that you would not take such precautions unless you had some danger to fear .
might i beg that you would have the goodness to sit down upon one of those boxes , and not to interfere ?
he was a strong minded man , sir , shrewd , practical , and as unimaginative as i am myself .
the matter passed , however , and my father entered into possession of the estate , and of some , pounds , which lay to his credit at the bank .
now , if you cared to apply , mr wilson , you would just walk in but perhaps it would hardly be worth your while to put yourself out of the way for the sake of a few hundred pounds .
i read death on his face as plain as i can read that text over the fire .
when i heard that some one had been so anxious to get into the bedroom , in which no one but joseph could have concealed anything you told us in your narrative how you had turned joseph out when you arrived with the doctor my suspicions all changed to certainties , especially as the attempt was made on the first night upon which the nurse was absent , showing that the intruder was well acquainted with the ways of the house .
from hatherley farm house to the boscombe pool is a quarter of a mile , and two people saw him as he passed over this ground .
i saw holmes put his hand to his forehead like a man distracted .
cried dr mortimer ,
step in , sir keep clear of the badger for he bites .
it has at some time been pinned to a board .
it was a strange sight had there been anything but the buzzards to see it .
they all appeared to be rather hostile to the unfortunate thaddeus sholto .
but there is no other track .
there was a dead silence in the room .
and that was why she shrieked and fainted when she saw the coronet ,
you 've hurt me !
it was he who gave me the information about lord saltire 's feelings .
the glass still keeps very high ,
but you have yourself had some experience of my methods of work in the jefferson hope case .
i tried to puzzle it out , but gave it up in despair and set the matter aside until night should bring an explanation .
but why did n't the police see this mark yesterday ?
replied holmes
you do n't know this baldwin .
we were seated at breakfast one morning , my wife and i , when the maid brought in a telegram .
i have some recollection , wilson , that you had among your boys a lad named cartwright , who showed some ability during the investigation .
of course , we had the drags at once , and set to work to recover the remains , but no trace of the body could we find .
it was most suggestive ,
suggested holmes ,
you know my method .
then he suddenly rolled them all into a gigantic ball and tossed them up onto the rack .
john 's wood .
there is no exit ?
in the dress is a pocket .
we had reached baker street and had stopped at the door .
he 's a brave man , but not a crazy one .
they were scrawled with chalk .
very good .
our visitors arrived at the appointed time , but it was a quarter to four before my friend put in an appearance .
is miss cushing at home ?
do you tell me that during these long ten weeks of agony the stolen papers were within the very room with me all the time ?
what do i read here ?
i could not marry her , for i have a wife who has left me for years and yet whom , by the deplorable laws of england , i could not divorce .
ah , yes , that 's another matter a mere trifle , but the sort of thing you take an interest in queer , you know , and what you might call freakish .
he wanted a dog of yours .
that creature had gone a little way when she began to limp and show every sign of being foot sore .
you will find it rather disconnected , i fear , and there may prove to be little relation between the different incidents of which i speak .
did barrymore profit at all by sir charles 's will ?
at the moment , however , i was too much concerned at the sudden illness of my host to think of anything else .
but what in the name of the devil !
exactly .
we fled together , were married at bari , and sold my jewels to gain the money which would take us to america .
the unfortunate creature 's tongue seemed hardly to have been moistened in it before it gave a convulsive shiver in every limb , and lay as rigid and lifeless as if it had been struck by lightning .
these agents work independently , and their relations with the embassies are often strained .
he came here with his victim in a four wheeled cab , which was drawn by a horse with three old shoes and one new one on his off fore leg .
when lee laid down his arms my uncle returned to his plantation , where he remained for three or four years .
there was not a doubt of it .
he then hailed a cab , and ordered the driver to take us to the address given us by lestrade .
cried holmes , shoving him back into the chair from which he had half risen .
he was a huge man , as you can testify , for you have looked upon his corpse .
i was not a lonely man : i had my daughter to attend to my wants .
be quick .
i had not quite understood until that instant how delicate my mission was .
there we met two gentlemen , mr carruthers and mr woodley , who were home on a visit from south africa .
no , there ai n't nothing , dearie .
he is extremely tall and thin , his forehead domes out in a white curve , and his two eyes are deeply sunken in his head .
he only comes there to see me , apparently , for the place is deserted up to the very hour he names .
there are forty armed men round this house , and you can figure it out for yourself what chance you have .
here are the very letters .
such were the singular circumstances in connection with the resident patient and the brook street doctor .
he has had the reputation of being a man of eccentric habits , secretive and retiring .
it cuts no ice with a british copper to tell him you 're an american citizen .
he muttered , as he seated himself in the shelter of a boulder .
the man entered and took the papers , sheet by sheet , from the central table .
when they got out the other day , which was some years before their full term , they set themselves , as you perceive , to hunt down the traitor and to avenge the death of their comrade upon him .
lestrade mounted the box , whipped up the horse , and brought us in a very short time to our destination .
i told you that i picked the book off the floor .
i expect developments , watson .
he therefore murdered adair , who at the time was endeavouring to work out how much money he should himself return , since he could not profit by his partner 's foul play .
let me see .
that is merripit house and the end of our journey .
my dear watson , professor moriarty is not a man who lets the grass grow under his feet .
you shall see the body at the mortuary , but we have made nothing of it up to now .
it must have bled considerably .
in ten days i had the money and had paid the debt .
needless to say that they were discharged with something very near to an apology from the bench for the inconvenience to which they had been put , together with an implied censure of captain marvin and the police for their officious zeal .
my first impulse was to tell sir henry all my plans .
my word , it is n't a very cheerful place ,
we shall now have a little supper and then retire , for we may have a very busy day to morrow .
i leave it with you , however , with every confidence , and i shall call for it in person on monday morning .
it was a piece of very simple reasoning .
you do n't know me ?
i wish i knew how you reach your results .
he added as the train began to glide down the platform .
what is it , my man ?
cried the miner , standing still in alarm , and gazing in amazement at his companion .
but the three missing drawings are the most important ?
he gasped , darting out again .
crouching together in the angle of the door , we kept our eyes fixed upon the mirror .
this was a lofty chamber , lined and littered with countless bottles .
she cried breathlessly .
i could not help thinking that his strange , catchy little laugh was also a symptom of some nervous malady .
what the deuce is it to me ?
or rather , i fancy , of that goose .
that your best plan would be to make a direct appeal to your wife , and to ask her to share her secret with you ?
i cried .
yes , sir
he cried ,
yes i see no reason for further concealment .
when confronted with his cravat , he turned very pale , and was utterly unable to account for its presence in the hand of the murdered man .
well , well ,
she seemed half dead when i saw her first .
these were very remarkable , but as eccentric as all his other accomplishments .
he puts down the candle .
lucas quickly turned back the drugget , thrust the document into some hiding place there , and covered it over .
i have lost my honour , my gems , and my son in one night .
that was the question which confronted me .
impossible ,
both sir henry and i were concerned at their situation , and it was suggested that perkins the groom should go over to sleep there , but stapleton would not hear of it .
yes , certainly .
he has always , however , been a prime favorite with the racing public , and has never yet disappointed them , so that even at those odds enormous sums of money have been laid upon him .
every problem becomes very childish when once it is explained to you .
have you read up the case ?
they will at least show our people what is known and what is not .
he is a bit of a don juan , and you can imagine that for a man like him it is not a very difficult part to play in a quiet country district .
that was the curious incident ,
nothing .
you see , for example , this great plain to the north here with the queer hills breaking out of it .
within twenty four hours i was in his sick room , and was relieved to find that there was nothing formidable in his symptoms even his iron constitution , however , had broken down under the strain of an investigation which had extended over two months , during which period he had never worked less than fifteen hours a day , and had more than once , as he assured me , kept to his task for five days at a stretch .
was there anything in your letter which might have unbalanced him or induced him to take such a step ?
you were after henderson ?
but you , holmes you have changed very little save for that horrible goatee .
he opened his bag , and at last we saw placed upon our table a complete specimen of that bust which we had already seen more than once in fragments .
the last that the porter saw of them , they were almost running down the street in the direction of the strand .
and yet it cannot be denied that the prosperity of the whole poor , bleak countryside depends upon his presence .
i fear lest i should be swayed too much by my own obvious interest in the matter , and that is why i bring the case before you and ask for your advice .
in an instant it reared up upon its hind legs with a snort of rage , and pranced and tossed in a way that would have unseated any but a most skilful rider .
it is melancholy outside and in .
he cried impatiently .
perhaps you would be good enough to read it aloud .
then she came down the street with her eyes blazing , and i saw the crippled wretch standing by the lamp post and shaking his clenched fists in the air as if he were mad with rage .
mr reuben hayes was arrested at chesterfield , on my information , at eleven o clock last night .
i called the police and had the place examined .
cried the clerk .
did morris say nothing to you against the lodge ?
that he wanted no gossip about his wealth .
as you may observe , mr holmes , my hair is somewhat luxuriant , and of a rather peculiar tint of chestnut .
even when you knew me first , at the time of the affair which you have commemorated in ' a study in scarlet , ' i had already established a considerable , though not a very lucrative , connection .
how would fifty guineas for a night 's work suit you ?
but if not well , the resources of science are far from being exhausted .
at first sight it would appear to be some childish prank .
now it 's for you to take it over .
who is he , and where shall i find him ?
and where is it ?
think of that !
a single man could not have carried out two deaths in such a way as to deceive a coroner 's jury .
screamed the old man furiously .
the prisoner winked at my friend jocosely .
well , thank you , mr holmes .
the verdict was greeted with loud applause by a court in which mcmurdo saw many familiar faces .
is it not clear that there is just as much of the pencil left as usually follows the johann ?
exactly !
on descending to his berth , i found him seated upon a chest with his head sunk upon his hands , rocking himself to and fro .
but what is the treasure , then ?
between nine and ten last night police constable cook , of the h division , on duty near waterloo bridge , heard a cry for help and a splash in the water .
outside the wind howled down baker street , while the rain beat fiercely against the windows .
i 'll chance that ,
here they were , safe and sound , their work well done , and the plaudits of their companions in their ears .
we must accept your terms , mr holmes .
it does seem to be a little out of the common ,
i shall be happy to give you an opinion upon the subject in the course of a day or two .
is there a train to north walsham to night ?
but it was the writing of a man , and of a well educated one , too .
yesterday , however , just as i was thinking of leaving the office , my clerk entered to say there was a gentleman waiting who wished to see me upon business .
kill it and take it with you .
here is the first notice which i can find .
you 'll never pass as a pure bred civilian as long as you keep that habit of carrying your handkerchief in your sleeve .
by the lord , you 'll be a man after mcginty 's heart !
holmes was gray with anger and mortification .
that questioning gaze transformed itself suddenly into abrupt speech .
but we 're in luck !
then our friend overton 's forebodings have been justified ,
you can n't sit there and play with me like a cat with a mouse .
my friend here , dr watson , has informed me of what you have communicated , and also of what you have withheld in connection with that matter .
only that there is an important witness whom you have not seen .
and now , doctor , we 've done our work , so it 's time we had some play .
holmes added , as he slowly fastened his notebook ,
we rattled across waterloo bridge and through miles of streets , until , to my astonishment , we found ourselves back in the terrace in which he had boarded .
what i cannot understand ,
on the contrary , it drew closer and more intimate as the weeks went by .
you are not doing her any service .
black or blue , they are in with me , and we all go together .
the unfortunate young man staggered back , and cast a look full of horror and reproach at bannister .
and i am the witness ?
on the face of it the case is not a very complex one , though it certainly presents some novel and interesting features .
i have wired to get his name and address from the official registry .
it was nearly midnight , and the street was deserted save for one or two revellers upon their way home .
you seem to have made a vast impression upon my brother arthur , and i know that he is a pretty shrewd judge .
i tell you , all those birds that went to the alpha were town bred .
you 'll find me here when you come back .
then there is another note in the morning post to say that the marriage would be an absolutely quiet one , that it would be at st .
he was in our confidence .
by whom ?
no , no , my dear watson .
the animal sprang into the air , tottered for a moment upon the edge of the precipice , and then came crashing down into the valley beneath .
but the launch ?
i saved enough to bring me across , and then i came here where the soldiers are , for i know their ways and how to amuse them and so earn enough to keep me .
but her telltale eyes were red and glanced at me from between swollen lids .
so there is one of our small mysteries cleared up .
lord holdhurst shrugged his shoulders .
nor have i any desire to do you an injury , dr sterndale .
i am glad to see that mrs hudson has had the good sense to light the fire .
within was a small , square room , in which the three of us could hardly get at one time .
i shall wish you to take a note to elrige 's farm .
he was a small , wiry , sunburnt man , clean shaven , with a sharp face and alert manner .
two lines of footmarks were clearly marked along the farther end of the path , both leading away from me .
he spoke wistfully of a sudden leaving , a breaking of old ties , a flight into a strange world , ending in this dreary valley , and ettie listened , her dark eyes gleaming with pity and with sympathy those two qualities which may turn so rapidly and so naturally to love .
your advice , then , as i understand it , is that the young man will be as safe in devonshire as in london .
the speckled band !
he glanced across at me and smiled .
milverton will send the letters to the earl unless a large sum of money is paid him .
she passed down the stairs , and he , thrilling with horror , ran along and slipped behind the curtain near your door , whence he could see what passed in the hall beneath .
our meal was a merry one .
oh , it 's for my sake , not for yours , ' he cried .
sure , it is like a war ,
at every turn baskerville gave an exclamation of delight , looking eagerly about him and asking countless questions .
silver blaze favorite ?
i owe this fellow no particular good will .
and now , watson , it only remains for us to find out by wire the identity of the cabman , no .
ah , of course .
well , i have fairly steady nerves , as you know , mr holmes , but i give you my word , that i got a shake when i put my head into that little house .
sherlock holmes and i read these notices over together at breakfast , and they appeared to afford him considerable amusement .
what are they ?
you will then learn in possibly twenty cases out of the twenty three that the waste of the day before has been burned or removed .
we must give the room a little time to clear .
well , well , there 's lestrade at the front window , and we shall soon know all about it .
i cried .
he was stiff and cold , and had clearly been dead many hours .
can n't you be happy for five minutes without mary , jim ?
milverton had glided as quick as a rat to the side of the room and stood with his back against the wall .
ah , you look on these things from another standpoint .
are all that i have left to remind me of the adventure of the musgrave ritual .
your blood would be upon my head .
you can take it from me that this young lady is mine , and you 'll find it a very fine evening for a walk .
what do you know of the black formosa corruption ?
i am sorry for you , lady hilda .
yes , i have a deal to say .
adventure iii .
there you have it all in a nutshell , watson , and if you can give me any light i shall be infinitely obliged to you .
do n't imagine that i intended to kill him in cold blood .
it 's you .
there must be some strong reason behind .
it would be a greater blow to him and to his country than to us if this letter were to come out .
there was this distant light to illuminate the gloom of the immediate future .
where is it ?
that was why he broke prison , sir he knew that i was here and that we could not refuse to help him .
he sank down upon the sea chest , and looked helplessly from one of us to the other .
he was not generally popular among the undergraduates , though it always seemed to me that what was set down as pride was really an attempt to cover extreme natural diffidence .
this last was too much , however , and i gave him notice to leave on account of it .
he was very insistent upon this point , and made me promise it faithfully .
but there was no sign of him , and it was in vain that i shouted .
from that night nothing has been seen of the three murderers by the police , and it is surmised at scotland yard that they were among the passengers of the ill fated steamer norah creina , which was lost some years ago with all hands upon the portuguese coast , some leagues to the north of oporto .
of course , i had at the outset no particular reason to connect these journeys with the disappearance of godfrey staunton , and was only inclined to investigate them on the general grounds that everything which concerns dr armstrong is at present of interest to us , but , now that i find he keeps so keen a look out upon anyone who may follow him on these excursions , the affair appears more important , and i shall not be satisfied until i have made the matter clear .
oh , if you do , mr holmes , do tell him that i know him to be innocent .
there also one may read of the shooting of mrs larbey when she was nursing her husband , who had been beaten almost to death by orders of boss mcginty .
it was only a joke at first ,
when i discovered my loss , mr holmes , which was at eight o clock this morning , i at once informed the prime minister .
it was at once clear to me that it formed part of a very remarkable document .
i am delighted to hear that they are unwarranted .
her banker or her lawyer .
i warn you that they are very incomplete .
a piece of matting has been laid here at the side , and we have all stood upon that .
for a couple of minutes he sat in complete silence .
i do not know whether it came from his own innate depravity or from the promptings of his master , but he was rude enough to set a dog at me .
good gracious , mr holmes , you are surely not going to leave me in this abrupt fashion !
and you will devote yourself to that ?
it was in the spring of the year that all london was interested , and the fashionable world dismayed , by the murder of the honourable ronald adair under most unusual and inexplicable circumstances .
no , he had not .
besides , there are one or two details which are not finished off , and it is one of those cases which are worth working out to the very end .
i shall probably wish to go over the outside of the house again .
what human contrivance could do that ?
then i gathered up a few plates and pots of silver , to carry out the idea of the robbery , and there i left them , with orders to give the alarm when i had a quarter of an hour 's start .
do not think that it was a delusion , holmes .
what mercy had you upon my poor darling , when you dragged her from her slaughtered father , and bore her away to your accursed and shameless harem .
yes , sir
the doctor had taken the lamp and was narrowly scrutinizing the body .
this is indeed important ,
you know what woman 's instincts are .
we heard a shuffling sound outside , and then two sharp taps with the knocker .
i have an inspector and two officers waiting at the front door .
i had nothing to do with my host going off upon a nocturnal excursion and meeting so sad an end .
i looked with amazement at the absurd hieroglyphics upon the paper .
then he implored me to keep his secret for three days longer , so as to give his wretched accomplice a chance of saving his guilty life .
cried my client .
when they had brought her to the hall the maiden was placed in an upper chamber , while hugo and his friends sat down to a long carouse , as was their nightly custom .
you left him in a chair , you say .
he did so but apparently found no trace of the concealed plant .
, while he has pounds standing to his credit in the capital and counties bank .
she would not endeavour to entangle the old gentleman in a sentimental attachment which might deliver him over to his enemy .
that would never do , watson .
with a few broken words of gratitude the man turned , but he hesitated and then came back .
without any open scandal , he still made india too hot to hold him .
is it a coincidence that it is found at the very point where the train pitches and sways as it comes round on the points ?
i tell you that you must save him !
two years ago a very large sum was smuggled through the estimates and was expended in acquiring a monopoly of the invention .
the diogenes club is the queerest club in london , and mycroft one of the queerest men .
there were sherlock holmes , the hydraulic engineer , inspector bradstreet , of scotland yard , a plain clothes man , and myself .
yes , do !
i glanced at the hastily clad clergyman , with the formally dressed lodger seated beside him , and was amused at the surprise which holmes 's simple deduction had brought to their faces .
i have already arranged what is to occur .
so , indeed , it proved , and as i come to the dark conclusion of a story which had seemed to me to be only childish and bizarre , i experience once again the dismay and horror with which i was filled .
i am not to blame , mr holmes .
but it needs a great deal of supplementing before anyone could offer an opinion .
i was that energetic person , and i have satisfied myself that by no exertion of my strength can i transfix the pig with a single blow .
her gloves were greyish and were worn through at the right forefinger .
ted baldwin , for one , had escaped the scaffold so had the willabys so had several others of the fiercest spirits of the gang .
the papers which this wretched youth had in his pocket were the plans of the bruce partington submarine .
barrymore looked surprised , and considered for a little time .
it is my duty to warn you that it will be used against you ,
the proposition was at once adopted , and the committee chosen .
i fell upon my face among some bushes , but holmes had me on my feet in an instant , and together we dashed away across the huge expanse of hampstead heath .
we had reached the same crowded thoroughfare in which we had found ourselves in the morning .
getting a vacancy did not seem to be such a very easy matter , after all .
one horse ?
i suppose that you have been watching the habits , and perhaps the house , of miss irene adler .
we did so , and at the cost of a severe shock to our client we succeeded in completing our case and driving stapleton to his destruction .
nor against me ?
i heard him say at last in a dry , rasping tone .
how would he know this pinkerton man ?
we passed round the lawn to the outside of the young diplomatist 's window .
at breakfast time he looked worn and haggard , with a little fleck of feverish color upon either cheek .
it was a favorite ditty of the late lamented professor moriarty .
i believe we hold him in the hollow of our hands ,
and now let us hear a true account of the next act .
well , then , here is your half sovereign .
a news bill at the entrance announced kensington outrage .
a hansom was procured with such precaution as would prevent its being one which was placed ready for us , and i drove immediately after breakfast to the lowther arcade , through which i hurried at the top of my speed .
of course , there was no bleeding on the line if the body had bled elsewhere .
the other most obvious explanation is that the child has been kidnapped for the purpose of levying ransom .
then you have none in me ?
mortimer tregennis explained that the night was cold and damp .
south american ,
well , he 's that strange , sir after you was gone he walked and he walked , up and down , and up and down , until i was weary of the sound of his footstep .
at that time mr douglas entered the room .
it 's very annoying , though , watson .
well , i have only just heard the facts , but my mind is made up .
have we any italians on the staff ?
in silence we stood together in the darkness and watched the hurrying figures who passed and repassed in front of us .
well , watson ,
i think that this typewritten letter is from you , in which you made an appointment with me for six o'clock ?
at each of the other sides were windows .
he thought the tutor must return by the main gate and that he would see him .
mr jonas oldacre then informed me that there were a number of documents building leases , title deeds , mortgages , scrip , and so forth which it was necessary that i should see and understand .
you blasted traitor !
important !
he leaned forward in his chair with an expression of extraordinary concentration upon his clear cut , hawklike features .
are you aware that mrs hilton cubitt has herself lain under grave suspicion of the murder of her husband , and that it was only my presence here , and the knowledge which i happened to possess , which has saved her from the accusation ?
i can hardly doubt that it is porlock 's writing , though i have seen it only twice before .
in three years he was better off than his neighbours , in six he was well to do , in nine he was rich , and in twelve there were not half a dozen men in the whole of salt lake city who could compare with him .
milverton rose and opened it .
any fresh face would cause comment ?
it was that vision which gave me an instant of sanity and of strength .
had he ever spoken of swandam lane ?
what was the name that he mentioned ?
i flatter myself that i can distinguish at a glance the ash of any known brand , either of cigar or of tobacco .
thought i to myself .
he might throw some light on that which is so dark to us .
there upon a shelf was the row of formidable scrap books and books of reference which many of our fellow citizens would have been so glad to burn .
holmes shrugged his shoulders .
well , sir ?
they led , however , in an indirect fashion to a singular and complex problem which gave my friend an opportunity of demonstrating the value of a fresh weapon among the many with which he waged his life long battle against crime .
where is barrymore ?
he cried .
i fancy that the poor fellow murmured some incoherent delirious words , and that she twisted them into this meaningless message .
he held up his candle before an extraordinary object which stood at the back of the dresser .
he suspects that we are detectives ,
i was hurried through the hall and into the vehicle , again obtaining that momentary glimpse of trees and a garden .
cried the other , relapsing in a moment into a bluff joviality ,
will you come with us on these terms ?
here 's a rough plan on a leaf of my notebook .
the professor shook his head .
on ascertaining that his daughter had disappeared , mr aloysius doran , in conjunction with the bridegroom , instantly put themselves in communication with the police , and very energetic inquiries are being made , which will probably result in a speedy clearing up of this very singular business .
she is dead .
a drive of an hour brought us to the picture dealer 's establishment .
perhaps the thought of that lonely walk across the ill omened moor was weighing heavily upon his mind .
when he reached st .
what else can be indicated by that right cuff so very shiny for five inches , and the left one with the smooth patch near the elbow where you rest it upon the desk ?
she was there in an instant , and i caught a glimpse of it as she half drew it out .
there was a single lamp over the gateway and a steady globe of light in the fatal study .
he called on john ferrier that night , and many times again , until his face was a familiar one at the farm house .
he had lit his pipe again , and was leaning back with drooping eyelids .
you saved my good name , and perhaps my life .
he cried .
no , sir , let them do their worst upon me , but for heaven 's sake , mr holmes , find some way of keeping my poor mary out of the courts .
the two willabys were men of action , tall , lithe young fellows with determined faces , while their companion , tiger cormac , a heavy , dark youth , was feared even by his own comrades for the ferocity of his disposition .
what about birlstone ?
he 's a hard proposition .
it is no wonder that he and his family have some of the more implacable spirits upon their track .
at the same moment by a lucky chance the moon broke through the clouds .
one after the other we made our way into a large apartment , which was evidently that in which mr melas had found himself .
i have a hunting crop .
two of these have been smoked from a holder and two without ,
there is , as you may have observed , a bicycle shop next to our inn .
responded his lordship .
i knew the habits of the house pretty well , and it was the time when mr sholto usually went down to his supper .
when did it break out ?
on the very night after his capture the aneurism burst , and he was found in the morning stretched upon the floor of the cell , with a placid smile upon his face , as though he had been able in his dying moments to look back upon a useful life , and on work well done .
we are spies in an enemy 's country .
as he spoke the bright , yellow light in the study was obscured by somebody passing to and fro before it .
the first thing that strikes one is the obvious possibility that the person now in the rooms may be entirely different from the one who engaged them .
he put less weight upon it .
i cried .
the circumstances connected with the death of sir charles cannot be said to have been entirely cleared up by the inquest , but at least enough has been done to dispose of those rumours to which local superstition has given rise .
i have a fairly long list at present .
it racks itself to pieces .
the savage man , and the savage beast , hunger , thirst , fatigue , and disease every impediment which nature could place in the way , had all been overcome with anglo saxon tenacity .
sherlock holmes made a note of it .
i see nothing in that .
but women were few , and there were many who had better claims than i .
do you mean that she has left england ?
a brougham was coming down it , and there could be no mistaking those gray horses .
i 'd like two shillin ' better ,
you do n't need to import an american from outside in order to account for american doings .
on the other hand , i said that i would play the game fairly by you , and i do not think it is a fair game to allow you for one unnecessary moment to waste your energies upon a profitless task .
the tragedy has been so uncommon , so complete and of such personal importance to so many people , that we are suffering from a plethora of surmise , conjecture , and hypothesis .
if you will help me with our prisoner , i think that we may get started for london at once .
but it was not mere guess work ?
did you see no one ?
what now ?
you are right !
a wooden legged man ?
it is probable that he will be away all day , and that there would be nothing to disturb you .
pray go on with your narrative .
we had news of it just before you came .
from our drag we had a superb view as they came up the straight .
i am delighted that you have come down , mr holmes ,
i at once rode past the carriage , and , keeping to the main road , i went on for a few miles , and then halted in a convenient place to see if the carriage passed .
i am proud to say that i had no interest in the matter .
if you will have the goodness to touch the bell , doctor , we will begin another investigation , in which , also a bird will be the chief feature .
i am the bearer of ill news this day but it is better that it should be known and discussed , than that a blow should fall upon us without warning which would destroy us all .
show a leg , matey , time to turn out guard .
but surely , if your supernatural theory be correct , it could work the young man evil in london as easily as in devonshire .
sherlock holmes and i had no difficulty in engaging a bedroom and sitting room at the crown inn .
you were chosen , doubtless , as resembling her in height , figure , and the colour of your hair .
you 'll be interested to hear that i 'm engaged .
cried phelps , as we began to move from the platform .
what the hell is it to you who are my friends ?
he could have carried it inside his overcoat without difficulty .
at last , however , when i was about eighteen , i gave them no more trouble , for i got into a mess over a girl , and could only get out of it again by taking the queen 's shilling and joining the d buffs , which was just starting for india .
there was no rest for me , no peace , no forgetfulness turn where i would , there was his cunning , grinning face at my elbow .
i fear your servant who gave them to him may get into trouble with the police .
you are too many for me when you begin to get on your theories , mr holmes ,
yes he was the last to pass me .
you do n't seem to be so very quick , after all .
to the best of my belief , they were rolled up .
i yielded as i have always yielded to his prayers , and instantly james hurried off to the fighting cock to warn hayes and give him the means of flight .
vell , i vant to tell you right now that it ai n't no manner of use .
it is , however , a game at which two may play .
mcmurdo took the letter from his pocket .
a kind of gentleman he was , as far as he could see , but what he was doing he could not make out .
that was how i killed him .
i have made arrangements , and the workmen will be at work early to morrow morning diverting the stream
if his own guilty conscience had not struck him down it is likely enough that i might have had his blood upon my soul .
on mrs cecil forrester ?
i know that clerks are sometimes curious as to their master 's affairs .
the housekeeper had come out of her room , attracted by the violent ringing of the bell .
we will just catch him before he starts .
i have told you all i know .
yes , he did .
he forgot his gloves but he caught up his shoes and darted into the bedroom .
there was excellent wild duck shooting in the fens , remarkably good fishing , a small but select library , taken over , as i understood , from a former occupant , and a tolerable cook , so that he would be a fastidious man who could not put in a pleasant month there .
when we reached scotland yard she was handed over at once to the female searcher .
she had , when she recovered , thrown open the window to let the morning air in , and had run down to the lane , whence she sent a farm lad for the doctor .
let us put him away together .
but i had hoped for so much from his return .
i had always vowed vengeance , and now i had my chance .
murmured sherlock holmes .
he was all honey when first we met him only eighteen months ago , and we both feel as if it were eighteen years .
on a saturday night mcmurdo was introduced to the lodge .
well , now , that is real kind of you , dr watson ,
this is my friend and colleague , dr watson .
one 's ideas must be as broad as nature if they are to interpret nature ,
yesterday , however , i learn that an event of extreme importance has occurred .
shall the examination proceed ?
it is a long , dismal walk , the yew alley , between two high walls of clipped hedge , with a narrow band of grass upon either side .
i 'll have to be pushing on my way for the early hours of a case are the precious ones , as no man knows better than your own self .
well then , it was monday night only two days ago , you understand that all this happened .
speaking of that , two brothers from the merton lodge are coming over to us next week to do some business in this quarter .
look at the neat little ' hosmer angel ' at the bottom .
and there is a little reward , i fancy .
as to the missing horse , there were abundant proofs in the mud which lay at the bottom of the fatal hollow that he had been there at the time of the struggle .
no , sir , dr becher is an englishman , and there is n't a man in the parish who has a better lined waistcoat .
is he the man who hobnobbed in rum and water with black peter in the dead of the night ?
so help me gracious , i have a wiper in the bag , an ' i 'll drop it on your ' ead if you do n't hook it .
it chanced that this hugo came to love if , indeed , so dark a passion may be known under so bright a name the daughter of a yeoman who held lands near the baskerville estate .
we shall then take you into partnership , and give you a fifth share to divide between you .
the aged ecclesiastic had turned his face towards me .
it is trying work for the eyes .
your eyes turned across to the unframed portrait of henry ward beecher which stands upon the top of your books .
they had kept him in the house without the girl 's knowledge , and the plaster over the face had been for the purpose of making recognition difficult in case she should ever catch a glimpse of him .
she broke into passionate sobbing as she spoke .
it is exceedingly unfortunate that you should be a bachelor .
i was in time to see the beast spring upon its victim , hurl him to the ground , and worry at his throat .
there are a few of us who frequent the alpha inn , near the museum we are to be found in the museum itself during the day , you understand .
then the door opened and the man stepped in .
as i turned i caught a glimpse of a convulsed face and frantic eyes .
you can imagine , watson , with what eagerness i listened to this extraordinary sequence of events , and endeavored to piece them together , and to devise some common thread upon which they might all hang .
you say that three people came out from the flat while you were waiting downstairs ,
who 's the better for that ?
he gasped in astonishment .
how long will it be first ?
then my gentleman threw up the trap , and he cried that i should drive right away to waterloo station as hard as i could go .
no tricks , now , or
we were fairly accustomed to receive weird telegrams at baker street , but i have a particular recollection of one which reached us on a gloomy february morning , some seven or eight years ago , and gave mr sherlock holmes a puzzled quarter of an hour .
one of these , whom i had cured of a painful and lingering disease , was never weary of advertising my virtues and of endeavouring to send me on every sufferer over whom he might have any influence .
you thief !
i will n't ask you to come with me now , but will you be ready to come when i am here again ?
this is not such a populous neighbourhood .
there is another morass down yonder , and a narrow neck between .
this is very important , very important indeed .
exactly .
that was an expression he has used when i questioned him .
about a week ago it was the tuesday of last week i found on one of the window sills a number of absurd little dancing figures like these upon the paper .
we have reason to believe that you have taken a paper of importance from the foreign office , and that you ran in here to dispose of it .
well , matters went from bad to worse with us , and this animal hudson became more and more intrusive , until at last , on making some insolent reply to my father in my presence one day , i took him by the shoulders and turned him out of the room .
i will not attempt it .
chuckled the inspector .
you will n't be offended , watson ?
having left lestrade at his rooms , we drove to our hotel , where we found lunch upon the table .
then i fail to follow your majesty .
there is no connection .
if i am mr neville st .
and who could it be who was her confederate ?
exactly so .
you remember ,
it is possible .
but i should be extremely obliged to you if you would come down with me to woking to morrow , by the same train which we took yesterday .
whatever made you come in like that .
yes , indeed .
and as he turned away , it seemed to me that he was more nearly moved by the softer human emotions than i had ever seen him .
by the inscription i observed that you had not had it more than a year .
a friend of mr sherlock is always welcome ,
his chair is worth seven hundred a year .
still , we can n't deny that you hit the nail on the head sometimes .
just notice this point , mr holmes : that so far as we know , none of the papers were removed , and that the prisoner is the one man in the world who had no reason for removing them , since he was heir at law , and would come into them in any case .
sherlock holmes ran her over with one of his quick , all comprehensive glances .
she was seated by the open window , dressed in some sort of white diaphanous material , with a little touch of scarlet at the neck and waist .
yes , and i confess that the contents startled me beyond measure .
it must be that , i suppose ,
there is this naturalist , stapleton , and there is his sister , who is said to be a young lady of attractions .
i then proceeded to make a careful examination of the room , which confirmed me in my opinion as to the murderer 's height , and furnished me with the additional details as to the trichinopoly cigar and the length of his nails .
i can remember that last night when he bade farewell to my mother .
yes she got a duplicate after the fire .
he noticed that a ladder , which usually lay there , was raised against one of the windows of the second floor , which was wide open .
quite so .
put the straw on the floor here , free from the wall on either side .
if only you two know of this incident , there is no reason why it should go any farther .
someone has got ahead of us this time .
i could not imagine what his intention was in returning there but i went on and pulled up my cab a hundred yards or so from the house .
as i came in he gave quite a jump in his chair and turned quickly to miss stoper .
you say , watson , that the lady is not there ?
he was a well grown , handsome man , with a splendid forehead , and though he has been with us for twenty years he cannot be more than forty now .
there are three within call .
the first flaw in my happiness was the arrival of the red moustached mr woodley .
i tell you , my friend , that if a detailed account of that silent contest could be written , it would take its place as the most brilliant bit of thrust and parry work in the history of detection .
it is not so easy as you seem to think .
was the telegraphic form one of these on the table ?
he walked very slowly and circumspectly , and there was something indescribably guilty and furtive in his whole appearance .
i will free the world of a poisonous thing .
yes , to day , if you like .
i panted .
by thunder , you may well be ashamed of yourself .
indeed , your example is an unfortunate one for your argument ,
silver blaze ,
he took a large sheet of paper from his pocket , all covered with dates and names .
perhaps you will kindly wait a minute , until i have examined the floor .
yes , at the mines .
so i was for the time .
could you lay your hand upon those pills ?
scoundrel !
the self reproach and contrition which are displayed in his remark appear to me to be the signs of a healthy mind rather than of a guilty one .
full speed ahead , engineer .
still , he has been justified of his wisdom up to date , at any rate , since he has not been taken .
you knew too much of the fate of victor savage , so i have sent you to share it .
these infernal scowrers , this cursed vindictive nest of criminals
with him we drove to the hereford arms where a room had already been engaged for us .
excellent !
where ?
i have no doubt jackson would take my practice .
it 's a mere chance as it is that mrs allen did not start out to inquire for the slamming door .
it is a lesson to us not to trust our own judgment , is it not , lestrade ?
i only gave fifteen shillings for the bust , and i think you ought to know that before i take ten pounds from you .
no , no , i can n't possibly leave it .
but what is it you wish ?
three days later a message was left scrawled upon paper , and placed under a pebble upon the sundial .
as i exhibited the empty box he leaned back in his chair and laughed aloud .
he is very well , thank you .
there were twenty three other deductions which would be of more interest to experts than to you .
i 'd rather watch him from over the water .
i am investigating the circumstances which attended the death of the late sir charles baskerville ,
he will have nothing but the tools which may help him in doing his work , but of these he has a large assortment , and all in the most perfect order .
i seemed to see it all clear at a glance .
the window , i may add , was not large enough for a man to get through .
there is a rattle , which shows that one of them is very young .
pray what more could i do ?
i never shot him .
you do what you think is your duty the best way you can , councillor .
it is a cold night , and i observe that your circulation is more adapted for summer than for winter .
no reference to the matter at all , either in word or writing ?
he was quietly dressed in a suit of heather tweed with a soft cloth cap which he had laid down upon my books .
it was some time before the health of my friend mr sherlock holmes recovered from the strain caused by his immense exertions in the spring of ' .
i knew there was trouble coming , and i came home and made ready for it .
he 'll be the boy for the clean job ,
when i found the suit of clothes in the moat , it at once became apparent to me that the body we had found could not have been the body of mr john douglas at all , but must be that of the bicyclist from tunbridge wells .
but for two of them , and one a woman , it must have been heavy work the raising of that stone .
save for the occasional use of cocaine , he had no vices , and he only turned to the drug as a protest against the monotony of existence when cases were scanty and the papers uninteresting .
at the far end is an old tumble down summer house .
but i thought i 'd stretch a point and drop down to see you in your own house .
nothing there that could not have been arranged .
is it not ?
well , it is a great responsibility that i take upon myself , but i have given hopkins an excellent hint and if he can n't avail himself of it i can do no more .
singular coincidence , holmes .
address printed in rather straggling characters : ' miss s .
as we approached it , there was the wooden drawbridge and the beautiful broad moat as still and luminous as quicksilver in the cold , winter sunshine .
suppose we go down stream a short way and lie in wait for them ,
i am glad you found the note , since it corroborates my story ,
i should do so ,
it 's all very well for you to laugh , mr sherlock holmes .
in a large room ?
his soft , precise fashion of speech leaves a conviction of sincerity which a mere bully could not produce .
i must have a look at the matter .
i was sure that i might rely on you .
carruthers took a telegram from his pocket that 's it , said he .
like most people who lead a lonely life , she was shy at first , but ended by becoming extremely communicative .
if i do n't , it may bring the end of us all .
for four years i had seen nothing of him until one morning he walked into my room in montague street .
i could hardly prevent myself from there and then kneeling down at his feet and telling him what i had done .
well , since you never said so , and mr phelps never said so , and nobody else knew anything of the matter , then the thief 's presence in the room was purely accidental .
i reckon the lodge will learn to be proud of you .
who knows ?
one of them , a little , dark bearded , resolute fellow , put the thoughts of himself and comrades into words as the ex prisoners passed him .
let us have some fresh blood ,
adventure vi .
well , sir , it 's this lonely , silent house and the queer thing in the kitchen .
if you wish to preserve your incognito ,
murmured holmes without opening his eyes .
i think we must admit that all the evidence points to this man , mortimer tregennis , having been the criminal in the first tragedy , though he was the victim in the second one .
what d'you think of me ?
granting that his whole journey was occupied in drawing up the will , then the train was an express , only stopping once between norwood and london bridge .
over his shoulder i caught a glimpse of one or two uniformed policemen outside .
why , with such a wonderful art at his command , mcmurdo should condescend to work at all was a perpetual mystery to his companions though he made it clear to anyone who asked him that if he lived without any visible means it would very quickly bring the police upon his track .
it was the indian , whose dark silhouette appeared suddenly upon his blind .
a hundred times i have killed him in my sleep .
dear miss hunter : miss stoper has very kindly given me your address , and i write from here to ask you whether you have reconsidered your decision .
more than once , as tufts of grass came out in my hand or my foot slipped in the wet notches of the rock , i thought that i was gone .
very good .
nor how you come to know what you do know , but will you swear that this is true that you tell me ?
the engines were soon upon the spot , but the dry wood burned with great fury , and it was impossible to arrest the conflagration until the stack had been entirely consumed .
no other line will be safe a week from now .
but there are much stronger reasons against the other .
when my uncle became foreign minister in this administration he gave me several missions of trust , and as i always brought them to a successful conclusion , he came at last to have the utmost confidence in my ability and tact .
you once get the door shut behind him , and you can leave the rest with us .
what sort of proposal is that to make a man ?
it had also been noted and commented upon by a few observant people that there were signs sometimes of some nerve strain upon the part of mrs douglas , and that she would display acute uneasiness if her absent husband should ever be particularly late in his return .
i did not wish to lose such a place without a struggle , so , as i had heard that you were good enough to give advice to poor folk who were in need of it , i came right away to you .
i 've not heard of him since i left out food for him last , and that was three days ago .
her jacket was black , with black beads sewn upon it , and a fringe of little black jet ornaments .
i sat up in my chair , and my wife laid her needle work down in her lap and made a little face of disappointment .
what 's wrong with the order ?
we may leave the question of who killed john straker for the instant , and confine ourselves to finding out what has become of the horse .
not a ghost of a motive can anyone suggest .
i have coursed many creatures in many countries during my checkered career , but never did sport give me such a wild thrill as this mad , flying man hunt down the thames .
on the third day , however , i had ample evidence that her solemn promise was not enough to hold her back from this secret influence which drew her away from her husband and her duty .
how cruelly i have misjudged him !
i lay listening with all my ears .
this was the strange proposal , mr holmes , with which the man blessington approached me .
here is a very fashionable epistle ,
no , sir
i have seldom felt so happy as when i got your wire asking me to meet you at harwich with the car .
thank you i do n't mind if i do ,
i do n't understand it .
as ames had observed , the soles of both were dark with blood .
you 'd have done the same , if you have any manhood in you , if you had been in my place .
miss morstan entered the room with a firm step and an outward composure of manner .
i noted him , and the energy with which he walked but he passed from my mind again as i hurried on upon my errand .
i can make nothing of it ,
only then , when the wheels were almost moving , did i suddenly realize that my liberty lay in my own hands .
how came they both to be so keen upon looking up ralph smith 's relations ?
stapleton was guarded in his replies , but it was easy to see that he said less than he might , and that he would not express his whole opinion out of consideration for the feelings of the baronet .
he was twenty seven years of age , unmarried , and a clerk at woolwich arsenal .
tragic , but ambiguous ,
black jack of ballarat was the name i went under , and our party is still remembered in the colony as the ballarat gang .
perhaps when i have finished at the police station you would care to come out and give me your opinion of them .
then you do n't think i 'll see him again ?
seven !
then , as to money ?
a few faint stars were gleaming in a violet sky .
yes , it is .
ten steps with each foot took me along parallel with the wall of the house , and again i marked my spot with a peg .
now to work !
did you remark the postmarks of those letters ?
i can hardly imagine anything more strange , more utterly inexplicable , than the situation in which i find myself .
i cannot explain it , mr holmes ,
i do not consider that it is hopeless to arrive at the truth .
it 's lucky for you , my man , that nothing is missing , or you would find yourself in queer street .
i refused , as you can imagine , and asked my father how he could allow such a wretch to take such liberties with himself and his household .
this was not the bird that i was looking for .
you 'll be more likely to get a confession out of him alone .
those rules of deduction laid down in that article which aroused your scorn , are invaluable to me in practical work .
it gives us the basis for several deductions .
because i made a blunder , my dear watson which is , i am afraid , a more common occurrence than any one would think who only knew me through your memoirs .
then the page we have seen
here 's a pretty business !
the lodger occupied two rooms at the vicarage , which were in an angle by themselves , the one above the other .
he turned in some surprise towards the rustic arbour in which we sat .
it was .
your case has certainly some features of great interest , and i shall be delighted to look into it .
it was headed ,
it was easier , therefore , for lucas than for the others to establish a connection or receive a message from the european secretary 's household a small thing , and yet where events are compressed into a few hours it may prove essential .
he is weary of this place where the fear of these people darkens our lives .
i wish to have your advice , major ,
she was married yesterday to young drebber .
let us see what that brings us to .
the mention of my friend 's name had an extraordinary effect upon the little man .
i hardly think that likely .
that cold , clear , unimpassioned statement from one who knew every detail of their lives , their organization , and their crimes was unshaken by all the wiles of their defenders .
there were two men that loved her , and one that she loved , and you 'll smile when you look at this poor thing huddled before the fire , and hear me say that it was for my good looks that she loved me .
they cannot interfere on the strength of what would appear to them to be a wild suspicion .
man , it would be absolute nonsense if it was n't that anything else is even worse !
this pretended merchant , who travels under the name of achmet , is now in the city of agra , and desires to gain his way into the fort .
the lady looked quickly up with an angry gleam in her hazel eyes .
oh , no , it is in the house .
why , i thought the country was full of it .
several of the dead man 's possessions notably a small case of razors had been found in the valet 's boxes , but he explained that they had been presents from the deceased , and the housekeeper was able to corroborate the story .
he had screamed for mercy .
i know our man too well to suppose that he has left anything up here which may lead us to him .
he had no occupation , but was interested in several companies and went into town as a rule in the morning , returning by the : from cannon street every night .
my stepdaughter has been here .
undoubtedly .
no doubt it had been prearranged in some fashion , for it was the fatal disc with the red circle upon it , the mandate for murder , which lay upon his palm .
a hound it was ,
take the message also , watson , that we may check each other .
she broke away from your influence when she found the man that you are ,
the american 's face showed his surprise and admiration .
besides , he was a much taller man .
it was soothing to catch even that passing glimpse of a tranquil english home in the midst of the wild , dark business which had absorbed us .
monica , john , ' she cried , ' and half a sovereign if you reach it in twenty minutes .
holmes eyed it critically .
i do not propose to appear in the matter at all .
he will catch us there .
his face flushed with anger , and his brows knotted over his blue teutonic eyes .
i heard it all , sahib ,
he had never said as much before , and i must admit that his words gave me keen pleasure , for i had often been piqued by his indifference to my admiration and to the attempts which i had made to give publicity to his methods .
all three bore excellent characters .
things have come to a bad pass when two free citizens cannot speak their thoughts to each other .
oh , the cause is excellent !
the valley of fear ,
i sent the paper on ahead , so that you might have time to study it before i came .
and how have you succeeded ?
but we have to be careful , for we have twice been deceived by wigs and once by paint .
i am all attention , madam .
it is curious is it not ?
it is final ,
mcmurdo looked puzzled .
in the whole history of the settlement there had never been such a case of rank disobedience to the authority of the elders .
i cried .
the source of the outrage was , it need hardly be said , that infamous society which has held this community in bondage for so long a period , and against which the herald has taken so uncompromising a stand .
where in the tropics could an english army doctor have seen much hardship and got his arm wounded ?
mcmurdo made a wry face .
on returning , he found that horner had disappeared , that the bureau had been forced open , and that the small morocco casket in which , as it afterwards transpired , the countess was accustomed to keep her jewel , was lying empty upon the dressing table .
in the first place ,
it would suit us best , but it is bolted as well as locked , and we should make too much noise getting in .
i never killed a man in chicago .
do n't look to me for a penny not a penny !
was mr staunton a healthy man ?
mrs lyons ,
yes , it 's worth it ,
he is the organizer of half that is evil and of nearly all that is undetected in this great city .
i could see by the twitch of his lip that there was a struggle going on within him .
not mr sherlock holmes !
very good ,
that of the last six cases which i have added to my notes , three have been entirely free of any legal crime .
i am sorry that i broke my promise , jack , but if you knew all the circumstances i am sure that you would forgive me .
the same porter was on duty , i found , as had been there when i arrived .
we clambered up through the hole .
he met no one .
she cried .
there is the death of the last occupant of the hall , fulfilling so exactly the conditions of the family legend , and there are the repeated reports from peasants of the appearance of a strange creature upon the moor .
did you chance to observe what became of it ?
a man was striding up the path which led to the door .
yet he had a reputation for kindness and charity on the country side , and was noted for the leniency of his sentences from the bench .
you will hear soon .
we must have a cab .
yes , yes , i opened it .
have you ever observed that his ears are pierced for earrings ?
, breakfast s .
my dear fellow , there lies the problem .
that 's what puzzles me for i know there ai n't more coals in her than would take her to about woolwich and back .
not more than two miles to the hall gates .
we have got the boy , sir
to give me a true account of all that happened at the abbey grange last night a true account , mind you , with nothing added and nothing taken off .
the other was a very small , dark fellow , with his hat pushed back and several packages under his arm .
by no possible supposition could this stranger , fitzroy simpson , have caused curry to be served in the trainer 's family that night , and it is surely too monstrous a coincidence to suppose that he happened to come along with powdered opium upon the very night when a dish happened to be served which would disguise the flavor .
i remember that i thought to myself , as i eyed him , that i had seldom seen a more powerfully built man and his dark sunburned face bore an expression of determination and energy which was as formidable as his personal strength .
i have worked with mr holmes before ,
where does this path lead to ?
american slang is very expressive sometimes .
but perhaps you would care to wait .
then he fell back into an arm chair so limp and exhausted with his own emotions that we had to pour brandy down his throat to keep him from fainting .
his cigar case , then ?
let holmes know all about it at once .
each case has been the prelude to another , and the crisis once over , the actors have passed for ever out of our busy lives .
now that we know that the gang are here , i do n't see how they can escape .
the tracks of the tire began to curve fantastically upon the wet and shining path .
here three men were waiting , with whom lawler and andrews held a short , eager conversation .
each pigeon hole had its label , and his eyes as he glanced along them read a long series of such titles as fords , harbour defences , aeroplanes , ireland , egypt , portsmouth forts , the channel , rosythe , and a score of others .
how did you hear of him ?
if i have it ,
i 'm all alone in the house .
we had best put this matter into an official shape .
did n't i send you word that i would see you to morrow morning ?
one sorrow comes close upon the heels of another .
there 's only one sure cure .
of course he must confirm your engagement , but between ourselves it will be all right .
thus as my predecessor weakened his practice declined , until when i purchased it from him it had sunk from twelve hundred to little more than three hundred a year .
then he walked slowly up the street , and then down again to the corner , still looking keenly at the houses .
but , in the second place , why did you not come at once ?
why did he not simply drop it ?
do not dream of going , watson , for i very much prefer having a witness , if only as a check to my own memory .
there were many marks of footsteps upon the wet clayey soil , but since the police had been coming and going over it , i was unable to see how my companion could hope to learn anything from it .
my instinct now is to work from the other end .
clearly they reflected the thoughts which possessed him , but whether the music aided those thoughts , or whether the playing was simply the result of a whim or fancy was more than i could determine .
there is a church there , you see , a few cottages , and an inn .
that 's what we want to know !
which was it ?
this outsider had to take originals .
i have little more to say , and it 's as well , for i am about done up .
is it forgery , coining , burglary where does the money come from ?
he could not tell which contained his treasure .
then , pray consult ,
we did see mr drebber again .
i heard a sharp rustle , the night air blew into the heated room , and the avenger was gone .
has this precious relation of yours departed , or is he still lurking out yonder ?
plumb in the middle of the back of the head and smack through the brain .
that 's genius , watson .
from east london .
heavy bands of astrakhan were slashed across the sleeves and fronts of his double breasted coat , while the deep blue cloak which was thrown over his shoulders was lined with flame coloured silk and secured at the neck with a brooch which consisted of a single flaming beryl .
thank you ,
it must have left a mark .
not only was his body that of a giant but everything about him was grotesque , gigantic , and terrifying .
it straightened itself into a little black man the smallest i have ever seen with a great , misshapen head and a shock of tangled , dishevelled hair .
so far i could hardly have gone astray .
we can n't afford to set the police buzzing , to day of all days .
yes , the local evening paper has an excellent account in its last edition .
barker had afterwards realized his money and come to live in london .
the crew had thought she would founder and had made for the norwegian coast in the dinghy .
certainly it will come out .
the mire has him .
what is this that you have done , mr holmes ?
why , mr reuben hayes ,
the presumption is that it was within a few minutes afterwards .
it 's past two now .
you can imagine how excited we were , for we thought that someone had left us a fortune .
i am at a loss to know , sir ,
no we do n't keep a cat .
you do n't mean you do n't mean that i am suspected ?
how is that , mr sherlock holmes ?
by thunder , watson , i am going out to take that man !
there are no marks of any one jumping down upon the other side .
the fact that he has a picture book under his arm shows that there is another child to be thought of .
pray take a cigarette .
on the farm thus acquired john ferrier built himself a substantial log house , which received so many additions in succeeding years that it grew into a roomy villa .
do nothing rash .
now let us follow the trail .
an open telegram lay upon the table .
you 've only my own good at heart .
because you gave me your word that you would do as you were told , and i tell you to stay .
we have had our eyes upon this mr milverton for some time , and , between ourselves , he was a bit of a villain .
it may turn out to be of more interest than you think .
little did i think that this would be the prelude to the most crushing misfortune of my life .
he will probably be here in a few minutes .
sherlock holmes put the sopping bundle upon the table beside the lamp and undid the cord which bound it .
look here !
that 's it !
my constitution has not got over the afghan campaign yet .
he has played a not unimportant part in this drama ,
i understand .
he ended a string of abuse by a vicious backhander , which i failed to entirely avoid .
why should we not get him ?
it was a terrible household that black peter carey had made for himself , and it was with a sense of relief that we found ourselves in the sunlight again and making our way along a path which had been worn across the fields by the feet of the dead man .
here are your lodgings .
your check book is locked in my drawer , and you have not asked for the key .
suddenly , to my surprise , the three at the altar faced round to me , and godfrey norton came running as hard as he could towards me .
i am somewhat exhausted i wonder how a battery feels when it pours electricity into a non conductor ?
i feel it and admit it .
if you will kindly step round with me , we shall see what fresh evidence the garden has to offer .
his weight is against his being a sapper .
you say i murdered peter carey , i say i killed peter carey , and there 's all the difference .
for a second or two we might have been a group of statues .
our coming was evidently a great event , for station master and porters clustered round us to carry out our luggage .
come instantly , pitt street , kensington .
god forgive you !
a moment later he and i were back in the front room , where the impassive lady was still quietly working away at her antimacassar .
i know of your visit to eduardo lucas , of your giving him this document , of your ingenious return to the room last night , and of the manner in which you took the letter from the hiding place under the carpet .
circumstantial evidence is occasionally very convincing , as when you find a trout in the milk , to quote thoreau 's example .
a shadow passed over the expressive face of the statesman .
james lancaster .
what have we gained by your expedition ?
you have probably never heard of professor moriarty ?
by jove , a curly haired spaniel .
at first i thought that it was dislike .
where is the key ?
we should not have troubled you , only that our friend who speaks greek and who began these negotiations has been forced to return to the east .
did the letter ever reach him ?
only one , but a very formidable person .
the reaction of joy was as passionate as his grief had been , and he hugged his recovered gems to his bosom .
he would n't have any visitors if he could help it , and he used to say that a woman should be happy in her own family circle .
ah , thank heaven !
it will be cold and bitter , watson , and a good many of us may wither before its blast .
he spoke it with anger and a sort of horror .
then suddenly raising his voice and bending his huge black brows into a terrible frown ,
what is the chief difference ?
he disappeared so suddenly .
i had stood for some minutes looking at the silent figure in the bed .
we must have something definite .
the result , however , was very trying for those who were acting as his agents and assistants .
is he delirious ?
stangerson was a quiet reserved man , but his employer , i am sorry to say , was far otherwise .
this is too bad of you , mcmurdo !
yes , sir he and a girl of fourteen , who does a bit of simple cooking and keeps the place clean that 's all i have in the house , for i am a widower and never had any family .
his left boot has a coarse , square toed sole , with an iron band round the heel .
i did , sir , and at the sight of me he looked as i have never seen a man look before , and over he went with his head on the fender .
what do you make of it ?
there 's one thing you should know .
it was not until we had reached home that i began to realize the true state of affairs .
ah , very well then that quite settles the matter .
he carried his head very jauntily in the air , had a swaggering style of walking , and was , above all else , remarkable for his extraordinary height .
then mrs allen , the housekeeper , led me upstairs again .
you are two of the most busy men in the country ,
anything more that you would like to ask , mr holmes ?
mycroft picked up the daily news , which was lying on the side table .
nothing .
then i went round the corner to the ivy plant for some brandy , and by the time i had brought it back the young woman had recovered and was off ashamed of herself , i daresay , and dared not face me .
i say , watson ,
then sherlock holmes cocked his eye at me , leaning back on the cushions with a pleased and yet critical face , like a connoisseur who has just taken his first sip of a comet vintage .
have you the chisel and the bags ?
no , no , we will preserve them upon our list of suspects .
yes , sir , near farnham , on the borders of surrey .
he lay upon his back , his face upturned , with his white teeth grinning through his short , black beard .
what do you mean ?
i waited until he had passed out of sight and then i followed him .
they are still sounding the planking and probing the furniture in the hope of finding them .
your visitor seems to have left traces in your bedroom as well as in your sitting room , mr soames .
i know which is her room .
i should be glad if you would make me out a check for six thousand pounds .
i would put it to you that this is too vital a thing for us to discuss in open lodge .
he seized my hand in the darkness and led me swiftly past banks of shrubs which brushed against our faces .
did you come to see him ?
may i ask how you knew who i was ?
stolen !
we telegraphed this morning .
no one has any reason to retain it .
mr bartholomew sholto , of pondicherry lodge , upper norwood , was found dead in his room under circumstances which point to foul play .
its invisibility , and the mystery which was attached to it , made this organization doubly terrible .
did you ever hear a bittern booming ?
he pointed to a smallish , dark , well dressed man who was bustling along the other side of the road .
he begged me to return to my room .
then again , if a woman and her lover conspire to murder a husband , are they going to advertise their guilt by ostentatiously removing his wedding ring after his death ?
staunton had not shaken hands with the man in the hall .
the crew are his , body and soul .
it was a strange puzzle , and yet i knew that my mind could never know ease again until i had solved it .
that 's all clear enough .
it 's a vital international problem that you have to solve .
it 's black gorgiano himself !
in this memorable year ' , a curious and incongruous succession of cases had engaged his attention , ranging from his famous investigation of the sudden death of cardinal tosca an inquiry which was carried out by him at the express desire of his holiness the pope down to his arrest of wilson , the notorious canary trainer , which removed a plague spot from the east end of london .
the wife probably died in childbed .
he was a capable organizer , and the actual details of nearly every outrage had sprung from his plotting brain .
most certainly there is ,
the man 's eyes flashed fire .
the same singularly proud and reserved nature which turned away with disdain from popular notoriety was capable of being moved to its depths by spontaneous wonder and praise from a friend .
his rusty black frock coat was buttoned right up in front , with the collar turned up , and his lank wrists protruded from his sleeves without a sign of cuff or shirt .
of course that was why he needed the candle , and struck the match .
he is much attached to her , no doubt , and would lead a lonely life without her , but it would seem the height of selfishness if he were to stand in the way of her making so brilliant a marriage .
so long as the members of this lodge stand together there is no power in the united states that can touch them .
he still came to me from time to time when he desired a companion in his investigation , but these occasions grew more and more seldom , until i find that in the year there were only three cases of which i retain any record .
my mind ,
but the central power which uses the agent is never caught never so much as suspected .
this is a most extraordinary case ,
terrible misfortune .
i had gone into town on that day , but i returned by the .
i would n't answer for our safety now , if he should happen to have another of his attacks of energy .
make after that launch with the yellow light .
if instead o standin'there so quiet you had just stepped up and given me that cross hit of yours under the jaw , i 'd ha ' known you without a question .
that was the word the man uttered , and of which his son only caught the last two syllables .
next door there appeared to be a children 's party , for the merry buzz of young voices and the clatter of a piano resounded through the night .
and beneath were the following enigmatical notices :
where to ?
he cowered away with wild cries and prayers for mercy , but i drew my knife and held it to his throat until he had obeyed me .
it was an old rickety door and gave at once before our united strength .
night after night the soldiers got up poorer men , and the poorer they got the more keen they were to play .
i only wanted to look at her .
there the matter stands at present , and the questions which have to be solved what neville st .
but when one gets old one has a longing for home .
it 's this way , watson ,
after leaving you at the station i went for a charming walk through some admirable surrey scenery to a pretty little village called ripley , where i had my tea at an inn , and took the precaution of filling my flask and of putting a paper of sandwiches in my pocket .
i guess you can fill in for yourselves what he did .
at eleven we shall drive as far as church row .
must see you over cadogan west .
it is my ruin forever !
i shall be back in an hour or two ,
he who could draw it from the rocks will not now abandon his own chosen people .
he leaned back in the cab , and i could see by his drawn brow and his vacant eye that he was thinking intently .
there are few who cannot recall that day and remember the one little incident which heralded the dawn of a new life .
do you tell me that all this happened within a few yards of your bed and that you heard nothing of it ?
it was more than a year ago now .
mr tregennis brought back the account to the vicarage , and i at once hurried over with him to consult you .
so moved was i that even had it been a difficult matter i should have tried it , but of course i knew well that holmes loved his art , so that he was ever as ready to bring his aid as his client could be to receive it .
right in front of us , and almost within our reach , was the broad , rounded back of milverton .
miss morstan seized my wrist , and we all stood with thumping hearts , straining our ears .
i hesitated but could not escape the question .
my dear holmes !
it 's hardly fair of you , mr holmes .
half an hour later we were seated , all four , in the small sitting room of signora lucca , listening to her remarkable narrative of those sinister events , the ending of which we had chanced to witness .
that is obvious from the shortness of the burnt end .
he is the bodymaster of vermissa lodge , and nothing can happen in these parts unless black jack mcginty wants it .
you could not observe that from here , but if you were on the mantelpiece you would see that it is cut clean off without any mark of fraying whatever .
there he found evil tidings awaiting him .
on the first page were written the initials j .
the longer one stays here the more does the spirit of the moor sink into one 's soul , its vastness , and also its grim charm .
yet they had not changed their position or pushed back their chairs .
hosmer came for us in a hansom , but as there were two of us he put us both into it and stepped himself into a four wheeler , which happened to be the only other cab in the street .
this outer one is for the letters , the inner one for the figures .
the fellow would take the boat and my father 's best gun and treat himself to little shooting trips .
after months of searching i discovered where he was .
sherlock holmes drew a long breath , and wiped the perspiration from his forehead .
the clerk in the ticket office was able to say with confidence that he saw cadogan west whom he knew well by sight upon the monday night , and that he went to london by the : to london bridge .
mr mortimer tregennis was more self contained than the clergyman , but the twitching of his thin hands and the brightness of his dark eyes showed that they shared a common emotion .
who are you ?
the figure was far taller than that of stapleton , far thinner than that of frankland .
every fresh advance which we make only reveals a fresh ridge beyond .
so that is the tail end of the telegram which godfrey staunton dispatched within a few hours of his disappearance .
a long silence was broken by a sudden exclamation from holmes , who dashed at a cupboard , from which he emerged with a second yellow covered volume in his hand .
indeed , his mood was infectious , for i lay tossing half the night myself , brooding over this strange problem , and inventing a hundred theories , each of which was more impossible than the last .
holmes listened attentively to everything , throwing in a question from time to time .
maybe you do n't know us ,
he demands the wedding ring heaven only knows why , but so it must have been .
he called upon eccles at the other end of london on the very day after he first met him , and he kept in close touch with him until he got him down to esher .
there were no footmarks and no other evidence as to his identity .
you will find it laid out upon the bed in your room , and if you would be so good as to put it on we should both be extremely obliged .
the scowrers ,
i saw his coward lips tremble as i spoke .
we stepped , as it were , right out of the carriage and into the hall , so that i failed to catch the most fleeting glance of the front of the house .
i can n't take that from me once and for all .
our prisoner 's furious resistance did not apparently indicate any ferocity in his disposition towards ourselves , for on finding himself powerless , he smiled in an affable manner , and expressed his hopes that he had not hurt any of us in the scuffle .
a young lady .
jack mcginty is the boss there .
lestrade 's bulldog features gazed out at us from the front window , and he greeted us warmly when a big constable had opened the door and let us in .
wonderful !
i could discern no others .
he sneered .
there i was stretched , when you , my dear watson , and all your following were investigating in the most sympathetic and inefficient manner the circumstances of my death .
at the far end , with his body resting upon the bar and a cigar stuck at an acute angle from the corner of his mouth , stood a tall , strong , heavily built man who could be none other than the famous mcginty himself .
her attack and her bowing are splendid .
he ames had observed some restlessness and excitement on the part of mr douglas that day for he had seemed impatient and irritable , which was unusual with him .
holmes had drawn a letter from his pocket .
mcginty took off his black velvet cap and his stole as he spoke ,
i have frequently gained my first real insight into the character of parents by studying their children .
now , then , listen to this .
a trouble which is enough to unseat my reason , so sudden and so terrible is it .
i would wish to know it ,
it had ceased ere i was wide awake , but it had left an impression behind it as though a window had gently closed somewhere .
she was weak and helpless , shaken in mind and nerve .
the outside was rough and worn , the leaves discoloured .
that he should have kept himself in training under such circumstances is remarkable , but his diet was usually of the sparest , and his habits were simple to the verge of austerity .
they are all people who are in trouble about something , and want a little enlightening .
it was just as you say .
but would he come ?
he cried .
by the time that you have looked through them lunch will be almost ready .
it is at least certain that a warrant has been issued .
my dear fellow !
my clothes were all sodden with dew , and my coat sleeve was drenched with blood from my wounded thumb .
certainly , if the lad had gone homeward , he must have passed this , and he could not pass it without leaving his traces .
they were all engaged for the evening .
we ascended the stairs and viewed the body .
may i see it ?
there may have been only one .
well , well , let it pass .
the sun was already sinking when i reached the summit of the hill , and the long slopes beneath me were all golden green on one side and gray shadow on the other .
she was preparing to go to bed when the loud ringing of the bell had attracted her attention .
we shall want you to come to night by the last train .
so determined was their denial that the inspector was staggered , and had almost come to believe that mrs st .
there is nothing here ,
no answer .
we have delayed long enough .
it is entirely a question of barometric pressure .
i will read you the questions and answers as they stand .
i will not speak until you sit down .
he relit the stair gas as he spoke , and we saw before us a singular looking man , whose appearance , as well as his voice , testified to his jangled nerves .
who sent for you ?
a pale , taper faced man with sandy whiskers rose up from a chair by the fire as we entered .
by the steps , my boy .
i have caught you , have i ?
the thing stands thus , sahib , and i tell it to you because i know that an oath is binding upon a feringhee , and that we may trust you .
i rather think not ,
and who bought the ironworks of manson and of shuman and of van deher and of atwood , which have all been given up of late ?
having completed my studies there , i was duly attached to the fifth northumberland fusiliers as assistant surgeon .
he cried at last .
the attempt , whatever it may be , is to come off , we will say , before one o'clock .
and the message ?
you are going to headquarters , no doubt .
only one important thing has happened in the last three days , and that is that nothing has happened .
i shall have to send in my papers .
why , man , it is the most practical medico legal discovery for years .
trust me only this once .
why , of course , it is italian !
consider an athlete with one dumb bell !
i have always held , too , that pistol practice should be distinctly an open air pastime and when holmes , in one of his queer humors , would sit in an arm chair with his hair trigger and a hundred boxer cartridges , and proceed to adorn the opposite wall with a patriotic v .
we 've had the bicycle identified , and we have a description of our man so that 's a long step on our journey .
from their lightness and transparency , i should imagine that they are soluble in water ,
in any case , if i could prove from peter carey 's evidence how these securities came on the market it would be a proof that my father had not sold them , and that he had no view to personal profit when he took them .
we can imagine that in the confusion of flight something precious , something which he could not bear to part with , had been left behind .
until then we may each do what we like for i can assure you that this inquiry has come to a definite pause .
it was hardly an appeal to be successful with one who was an old campaigner as well as an old friend .
the stream brings down the clay .
these are samples of the questions and answers which made up our strange half spoken , half written conversation .
that is the problem which we are now about to solve ,
holmes pointed to the wattles on the severed head .
yes , but he is chained on the other side of the house .
i was not surprised when holmes suggested that i should take my revolver with me .
he burst into one of his rare fits of laughter as he turned away from the picture .
it 's up to you to see that they do n't fall down .
at the time of the war he fought in jackson 's army , and afterwards under hood , where he rose to be a colonel .
their governess is a miss burnet , an englishwoman of forty or thereabouts .
i was frightened of the house , of the man , of the woman , of the servants , even of the child .
she gave a long sigh of satisfaction .
i ought to be back before three , if i can get a fresh horse .
and then i thought of that other one the face in the cab , the figure against the moon .
as he dangled from the hook it was exaggerated and intensified until he was scarce human in his appearance .
there 's been a woman here ,
the intelligence with which lestrade greeted us was so momentous and so unexpected , that we were all three fairly dumfoundered .
there are not many in london which charge at that rate .
there cannot be any missing ,
my poor gennaro , in his wild and fiery days , when all the world seemed against him and his mind was driven half mad by the injustices of life , had joined a neapolitan society , the red circle , which was allied to the old carbonari .
except yourself i have none ,
very much so .
i thought i 'd get it either with mr beddoes or with you .
oh , spare me , mr holmes !
his visitor , on entering his rooms , had drawn a life preserver from his sleeve , and had so impressed him with the fear of instant and inevitable death that he had kidnapped him for the second time .
he snuggled down in his armchair .
holmes and i sat together in silence all the evening , he engaged with a powerful lens deciphering the remains of the original inscription upon a palimpsest , i deep in a recent treatise upon surgery .
could anyone have got away through that door after the time that you heard the cry , susan ?
if my friends are not good enough for this house , then i am not good enough for it either .
you were always a croaker .
i thought that she had fainted , but she recovered herself by a supreme effort .
still , if i had married lord st .
heaven help the man , and still more the woman , whose secret and reputation come into the power of milverton !
hardly that ,
at that moment , however , as our evil fate would have it , a tug with three barges in tow blundered in between us .
for the purposes of my investigation , i think that it would be wiser for me to remain at the scene of the mystery .
beating the subjects !
often it was only the smallest trace , watson , the faintest indication , and yet it was enough to tell me that the great malignant brain was there , as the gentlest tremors of the edges of the web remind one of the foul spider which lurks in the centre .
you may have observed the same wheel tracks going the other way .
i think that she has gone out for a walk , ' she answered .
it is that surface simplicity of theirs which makes a trap for the stranger .
it was thickly coated with soot from the passing engines , but the black surface was blurred and rubbed in places .
he added , with a bitter smile ,
holmes rubbed his hands and chuckled with delight .
nor was it difficult to guess what that weapon may have been .
his face and hands were terribly mangled by his passage through the glass , but loss of blood had no effect in diminishing his resistance .
i paced up and down the room , humming a tune under my breath to keep up my spirits and feeling that i was thoroughly earning my fifty guinea fee .
you must n't blame me if you do n't get on with him ,
at one point is a small cross done in red ink , and above it is ' .
the blood stains in the room and also on the stick are very slight .
this is mr sherlock holmes , and this is dr watson .
i do n't see how that could be .
i thought that a few months among the distractions of town would send him back a new man .
he and i seemed to be the only living things between the huge arch of the sky and the desert beneath it .
will you not wait and breakfast ?
of these bedrooms the first is dr roylott 's , the second my sister 's , and the third my own .
you are aware that he has disappeared ?
it 's a terrible business ,
no one has seen him .
i swore to my wife that i would kill her if i found her in his company again , and i led her back with me , sobbing and trembling , and as white as a piece of paper .
i assure you , sir henry , that in a very few days the necessary arrangements will have been made and he will be on his way to south america .
have i though ,
you know it as a fact .
there was little difficulty in finding him , for he inhabited one of those villas which i have mentioned .
near the window his wife was crouching , her head leaning against the wall .
i thought he would never go .
it is the stoniest part of the whole moor .
von bork nodded .
i am sorry to trouble you ,
a long series of sterile weeks lay behind us , and here at last there was a fitting object for those remarkable powers which , like all special gifts , become irksome to their owner when they are not in use .
nor was the fact of the wound being on the back of his head a fatal objection to this , as he might have turned to avoid the blow .
in the kitchen ,
you do n't know , jack .
i would handle it gingerly if i were you .
you see that his murderer might have torn the rest of the sheet from him or he might have taken this fragment from the murderer .
then i have wasted my time and need not prolong my visit .
what strength or courage could avail against an enemy armed with such mysterious powers ?
there you are .
an instant later the man emerged from his hiding place , sprang upon his cycle , and followed her .
well , it 's possible .
of course this may prove to be a false alarm but it is my duty as an officer of the law to allow no chance to slip .
how was she dressed ?
once in the hollow , he had got behind the horse and had struck a light but the creature frightened at the sudden glare , and with the strange instinct of animals feeling that some mischief was intended , had lashed out , and the steel shoe had struck straker full on the forehead .
the two stains did correspond , but the carpet has been turned round .
that was it ,
muttered holmes , pulling at the rope .
you must give us best this time .
fifty pounds was quite enough , i thought .
i have always found him an excellent servant .
his plump face was twitching with his nervousness , and his fingers could not keep still .
she cried ,
lastly , supposing one man wished to dog another through london , what better means could he adopt than to turn cabdriver .
had he any enemies ?
at first it was only a minute 's chat , but soon his visits lengthened , and before the end of the term we were close friends .
we pulled up halfway down the street and waited an hour and a half .
he heard him .
i was longing for something to do .
these are coins of charles the first , you see we were right in fixing our date for the ritual .
he ai n't been out o his room to day , mr thaddeus , and i have no orders .
it was not mere curiosity , though i have my share of that .
if i could lie low for a while and then get away where i could be joined by my ' widow ' we should have a chance at last of living in peace for the rest of our lives .
i scrambled down on to the path .
if we burn the boat we must have them !
then i suggest that we turn our dinner into a supper and follow up this clue while it is still hot .
the case has , in some respects , been not entirely devoid of interest .
excellent , watson !
the thing to do was clearly to bring the business to an end in such a dramatic manner that it would leave a permanent impression upon the young lady 's mind and prevent her from looking upon any other suitor for some time to come .
look how i have earned it !
he can come in the morning , or he can stay away .
after all , it is a question of money with these fellows , and i have the british treasury behind me .
but this time i was set on going , and i would go for what right had he to prevent ?
but the matter cannot be delayed .
any instant he might dash out the light and vanish in the darkness .
the blinds were not down , for the room was seldom used in the evening , but mrs barclay herself lit the lamp and then rang the bell , asking jane stewart , the house maid , to bring her a cup of tea , which was quite contrary to her usual habits .
as a matter of fact there were none .
i should not stay here .
his dark secretary is like his shadow .
you gave permission for that , mr mac , as i am informed .
there he scribbled a short note for stanley hopkins , and left it with the lodge keeper .
ah , yes .
did you hear from mr staunton in london ?
then with a grand effort she rallied from the shock , and a supreme astonishment and indignation chased every other expression from her features .
cried sherlock holmes .
when he breathed his vows to her , as he had done to a hundred before her , she flattered herself that she alone had touched his heart .
mcmurdo went from one to the other and drew the curtains tighter .
every plunge of the excited horse brought it against the horns again , and goaded it to fresh madness .
everything else was dark and still .
with bated breath and crouching figures they stumbled across it , and gained the shelter of the hedge , which they skirted until they came to the gap which opened into the cornfields .
i have eight or ten similar cases maturing .
it was clear that the cottage had at last been let .
it is my experience that it is only an amiable man in this world who receives testimonials , only an unambitious one who abandons a london career for the country , and only an absent minded one who leaves his stick and not his visiting card after waiting an hour in your room .
i am the judge .
it took all my self control to prevent me from breaking out into a cry of astonishment .
it was all still and quiet upon the ground floor .
why did they fly ?
what wrong can it refer to except this deprivation of her father ?
these ,
you can imagine our amazement .
halloa , beryl !
my correspondence , however , is , as you know , a varied one , and i am somewhat upon my guard against any packages which reach me .
the married officers live out of barracks , and the colonel has during all this time occupied a villa called lachine , about half a mile from the north camp .
good , lestrade , very good ,
it 's your only hope .
how do you know , then ?
i can conceive of no explanation .
we want no stranger here .
but i expect we 'll have to look to london before we are through .
the bare sight of me was like a bullet through his guilty heart .
but his lameness ?
it is porlock 's writing ,
how he did it i could not imagine , but he pushed and pulled and butted until he got me through the crowd , and right up to the steps which led to the office .
however , we may as well go and have a look .
now , watson , let us have the facts .
you recognized her .
holmes nestled in silence into his heavy coat , and i was glad to do the same , for the air was most bitter , and neither of us had broken our fast .
that someone is not ill disposed towards you , since they warn you of danger .
i 'll tell him the papers are at my house , and that it 's as much as my life would be worth to let him come while folk were about .
oh , that !
she was angry , and said that i was never to speak of the matter again .
to morrow i shall set to work upon your case .
athens , perhaps .
he is a rich man .
they are all six there .
the prime minister 's manner was subdued , but i could see by the gleam of his eyes and the twitchings of his bony hands that he shared the excitement of his young colleague .
my name is sherlock holmes .
do you know ,
gigantic attempted robbery .
come right in , sir ,
an old scratch would be the same colour as the surface .
i could imagine his giving a friend a little pinch of the latest vegetable alkaloid , not out of malevolence , you understand , but simply out of a spirit of inquiry in order to have an accurate idea of the effects .
if , then , mortimer tregennis disappeared from the scene , and yet some outside person affected the card players , how can we reconstruct that person , and how was such an impression of horror conveyed ?
no , mr von bork , you will go with us in a quiet , sensible fashion to scotland yard , whence you can send for your friend , baron von herling , and see if even now you may not fill that place which he has reserved for you in the ambassadorial suite .
there was wine in each glass .
the little man waved his hand deprecatingly .
really , sir !
now , mcmurdo !
you will find me at the langham under the name of the count von kramm .
i read at the inquest a description of his cabin , in which it stated that the old logbooks of his vessel were preserved in it .
i will not quite take him into my confidence yet .
we were short handed , with hardly men enough to man the angles of the building and to serve the guns .
he was a clever man , was old patrick .
the duke is greatly agitated , and , as to me , you have seen yourselves the state of nervous prostration to which the suspense and the responsibility have reduced me .
that second window is the one that i jumped from .
he has been excavating a barrow at long down and has got a prehistoric skull which fills him with great joy .
it showed the bust and face of a very beautiful woman .
but perhaps your wider experience has suggested some conceivable explanation .
i am afraid that i cannot answer that question .
it was consumption of the most virulent kind .
you allude to my attempt to recover the irene adler papers , to the singular case of miss mary sutherland , and to the adventure of the man with the twisted lip .
but perhaps we may find something here which may help us .
it was a large apartment , with a long deal table in the centre , and the big stove at one side .
but you know the hotel ink and the hotel pen , where it is rare to get anything else .
oh , that 's your idea !
i stooped to the hole , and recoiled in horror .
the third night of my watch was dark and dirty , with a small , driving rain .
ceases to be the initials of an individual and becomes the badge of a society .
replied lestrade with some warmth .
behold the fruit of pensive nights and laborious days when i watched the little working gangs as once i watched the criminal world of london .
i 'm thinking that you are a weak man and that you make too much of the matter .
his smile broadened .
you will rise high in your profession .
from the plymouth hotel , watson ,
well , what am i to do , mr holmes ?
i was going to call for the police , but she , to my surprise , spoke quite civilly to the fellow .
where is the despatch box ?
my brother and i were very much shocked by the death of sir charles .
i looked about for a stone to beat out his brains with , but none could i see .
it will be time to look out for squalls when we do .
but the marks ?
there was the possibility that the murderer had done this , and had afterwards escaped by the window .
the man on the bicycle was doubtless a member of those week end parties at the hall of which the publican had spoken , but who he was , or what he wanted , was as obscure as ever .
within a radius of five miles there are , as you see , only a very few scattered dwellings .
holmes slowly reopened his eyes and looked impatiently at his gigantic client .
you think so , too ?
nothing .
it was the band !
i will give you a proof of my knowledge .
you were so absorbed in young neligan that you could not spare a thought to patrick cairns , the true murderer of peter carey .
what is the object of these questions ?
he had but one hope in life now , and that was for the arrival of the young hunter from nevada .
my god !
frankly , now !
exactly .
beyond , two copses of trees moaned and swung in a rising wind .
was the remainder of the coronet at all injured ?
and yet i would have trusted him as i trust myself .
i 've hardly seen you in the light yet .
exactly .
i think that we may gain that by means of the law but we have our web to weave , while theirs is already woven .
the other six servants in the house bear no relation to the events of the night of january th .
coals of fire , holmes coals of fire !
here you are , doggy !
stick at it , and let me have the lists by monday , at twelve .
i am interested but , as you observe , i am not surprised .
no , no , watson , the assassin was alone with the dead man for some time with the lamp lit .
holmes shook his head .
the man turned a shade paler and cast a malignant glance at holmes .
a pair , by the sound ,
no , no , my girl , the matter must be probed to the bottom .
i felt holmes 's hand steal into mine and give me a reassuring shake , as if to say that the situation was within his powers , and that he was easy in his mind .
we have his description , his valise , his bicycle .
i am going out now .
some folks might say there was madness in his method ,
for i was head coachman once , and cruel bad he treated me .
but how will you look ?
his daughter objected .
he came again and again .
the captain , the two mates , two warders , lieutenant martin , his eighteen soldiers , and the doctor were all that we had against us .
so far as the case of the hound goes , however , i will give you the course of events as nearly as i can , and you will suggest anything which i may have forgotten .
i had pounds a month in my last place with colonel spence munro .
why , you look very serious over it .
he saw the question in my eyes , and , putting his finger tips together and his elbows upon his knees , he explained the situation .
the inspector had lit his lantern , and by its light we could see the two doors , the curtain , the lamp , and the suit of japanese mail as he had described them .
perhaps you are right , watson ,
he is an intimate friend of mine .
a touch !
wordsworth road ,
call it the ' police news of the past .
with reference to the upper norwood tragedy ,
there must have been several in it , and they must have been men of resource and determination .
we all yelled .
one , it is said , died that very night of what he had seen , and the other twain were but broken men for the rest of their days .
thank you , jacobs , put it here .
first of all , i wish to impress upon you that the boy certainly left of his own free will .
i suggested .
she is four and twenty .
i beg you to leave no stone unturned to bring him safely back .
matters have gone so far now that they can move without my help as far as the arrest goes , though my presence is necessary for a conviction .
he was clad in a dark suit , and i saw that he had a black beard .
beyond the obvious facts that he has at some time done manual labour , that he takes snuff , that he is a freemason , that he has been in china , and that he has done a considerable amount of writing lately , i can deduce nothing else .
give him an arm back into his chair , watson .
the case is definite enough .
the largest landed proprietor in that part is a mr john turner , who made his money in australia and returned some years ago to the old country .
there was the end of this tangled clue .
well , sir , it was immediately after that our own trouble came to us .
a strange enigma is man !
we had risen from our rocks and were turning to go home , having abandoned the hopeless chase .
i think i see how things worked , and i can understand how this message would , as you say , bring them to a head .
but if you are so very sharp you ought to be sharp enough to know that it is you who are breaking the law now , and not me .
we must hurry up , for i want to go to halle 's concert to hear norman neruda this afternoon .
i roared , shaking him by the shoulder .
now , if the obvious reading of it is correct , and in order to keep the tryst one has to ascend a main stair and seek the seventh door in a corridor , it is perfectly clear that the house is a very large one .
he had changed little , was dressed like a young man of fashion he was always a bit of a dandy and preserved the same quiet , suave manner which had formerly distinguished him .
yes , but i do not think that it is such a very unusual thing to have a small opening between two rooms it was so small that a rat could hardly pass through .
i understand that you wrote to your son upon the day when this incident occurred .
i shall indeed be indebted to you if you can throw a light where all is so dark to us .
quite so .
pray draw up to it , and i shall order you a cup of hot coffee , for i observe that you are shivering .
having no success , she goes again next morning , and her husband meets her , as he has told us , as she comes out .
and now it is time that we arranged our little plans .
well , i took to my heels , and i ran after the cab .
the face was turned half round , and the effect was that of one of those black silhouettes which our grandparents loved to frame .
there seems to be a powerful lot of ye .
i 'll see , sir
lor ' bless you , sir , he is that , and forward .
what chemist sold him the powdered opium ?
where have you been ?
i was handed over to the manservant , a melancholy , swarthy individual , who led the way , my bag in his hand , to my bedroom .
a case of this sort gives a man a chance , and i hope that i shall take it .
we were chatting about the matter when you came in , inspector .
and not an instant sooner or later .
royal artillery , i fancy ,
from under the sink he drew a zinc pail which contained a quantity of blood .
was it here ?
, and whom you afterwards were eager to entirely forget .
you infer that she may have gone out to tell her sweetheart , and that the two may have planned the robbery .
if the lodge will think none the worse of me , i 'll just do as you advise and leave you to yourselves for the evening .
remember also the curious earnestness with which she assured us that it was best for her husband that she should know all .
great heavens !
there were steps in the passage .
the man , dead or alive , either fell or was precipitated from a train .
i have already learned all that is in the public prints , nothing more .
nothing could have been better .
why did n't you say so before ?
that is firm ground .
i did a good deal of shopping .
then there is no more to be done in the matter .
she had heard nothing in the night .
there has been some villainy here ,
but how are you affected ?
it must be very familiar to you .
i must thank you ,
sherlock holmes smiled demurely .
because they were papers that he could not negotiate .
my own hobby has always been nervous disease .
he told me , and my own heart grew cold as ice as i listened .
i instantly communicated with miss morstan , and it only remains for us to drive out to norwood and demand our share .
i pray not , sir and what do you intend to do ?
father has saved some money .
a cold hand seemed to close round my heart .
i am afraid that it is quite essential ,
you have had him in your power and he knew it , and yet you are alive .
that what had come again ?
what can be the matter ?
before the what ?
he took a kind of fancy to me then , and would hardly go back to his woods , but was always hanging about my hut .
i 'll do you this justice , mr holmes , that i was never in a case yet that i did n't feel stronger for having you on my side .
he had been watching me eagerly out of his small eyes , and i could see a shadow pass over his face as i spoke .
there 's no link between the two save for henderson 's own servant , who serves the family 's meals .
it was one of the main arteries which conveyed the traffic of the city to the north and west .
god bless you !
i 'll do what you advise .
why had he got there before me ?
the devil , sir , for all i know .
we examined it very carefully , but found no outline of any footmark .
there was no chance of either of us forgetting that peculiar ruddy tweed suit the very one which he had worn on the first morning that we had seen him in baker street .
eminent bodymaster ,
misfortunes never come single ,
a group of loafers upon the pavements , all staring up at a particular window , directed me to the house which i had come to see .
i looked round , with a chill of fear in my heart , at the huge swelling plain , mottled with the green patches of rushes .
because i always keep faith .
that 's the list of the folk from whom i buy .
your name has already been filed as one of the personal suite .
he has one positive virtue .
poor young mr smith , he was a smoker also , but not as bad as the professor .
the whole garden has already been minutely examined .
there is one very important circumstance , however .
he has the reputation of being hot headed and imperious , but a straight , honest man .
there it is in a nutshell .
the duke , then ?
for twenty minutes or more he continued his researches , measuring with the most exact care the distance between marks which were entirely invisible to me , and occasionally applying his tape to the walls in an equally incomprehensible manner .
i painted my face , and to make myself as pitiable as possible i made a good scar and fixed one side of my lip in a twist by the aid of a small slip of flesh coloured plaster .
he was cunning , was stangerson , and always on his guard .
he would be very angry if he knew that i have said anything which might induce sir henry to go away .
it is filled with rough salt of the quality used for preserving hides and other of the coarser commercial purposes .
why are they lying , and what is the truth which they are trying so hard to conceal ?
and holmes ' fears came to be realised , for from that day to this no word has ever been heard either of the beautiful woman , the sinister german , or the morose englishman .
there is the gravel drive , and there are the rose bushes where i lay .
the kitchen stands right at the back of the house .
she came to mr doran 's door just after we returned , and she endeavoured to push her way in , uttering very abusive expressions towards my wife , and even threatening her , but i had foreseen the possibility of something of the sort , and i had two police fellows there in private clothes , who soon pushed her out again .
now , of course that suggested at once that there must be a communication between the two rooms it could only be a small one , or it would have been remarked upon at the coroner 's inquiry .
shall i have a cab called ?
from their conversation i have gathered that they have been married about seven years , that he was a widower , and that his only child by the first wife was the daughter who has gone to philadelphia .
well , that is a list of my town suppliers .
the duke 's beard had turned more aggressively red than ever against his ghastly white face .
first he dropped me , then he quarrelled with sarah , and now that mary has stopped writing we do n't know how things are going with them .
when dr roylott was in india he married my mother , mrs stoner , the young widow of major general stoner , of the bengal artillery .
students of criminology will remember the analogous incidents in godno , in little russia , in the year ' , and of course there are the anderson murders in north carolina , but this case possesses some features which are entirely its own .
for a long time i sat half distracted , wondering what i should do .
in that great brain of his everything is pigeon holed and can be handed out in an instant .
it happened that my way took me past the cottage , and i stopped for an instant to look at the windows , and to see if i could catch a glimpse of the strange face which had looked out at me on the day before .
watson , do you remember seeing any cow tracks to day ?
i confess that i think you owe him some apology .
i spent the night in town , for i came up yesterday to report .
everybody was out of town , and i yearned for the glades of the new forest or the shingle of southsea .
a heavily timbered park stretched up in a gentle slope , thickening into a grove at the highest point .
you know my methods of work , mr mac .
my friend had no breakfast himself , for it was one of his peculiarities that in his more intense moments he would permit himself no food , and i have known him presume upon his iron strength until he has fainted from pure inanition .
to clotilde lothman von saxe meningen , second daughter of the king of scandinavia .
good heaven , no !
we 've all had it ,
he continued , turning to me with a smile ,
they are singular , not to say grotesque ,
i am afraid that there are no more tracks ,
your affection for arthur blinds you as to the awful consequences to me .
i have given you one .
what , then , did peterson do ?
the word ' croydon ' has been originally spelled with an ' i ' , which has been changed to ' y ' .
the maids complained of his drunken habits and his vile language .
up this the little train was slowly crawling .
and so the blood mottled figure had been left as a warning to all such hard hearted employers , and the three noble avengers had hurried off into the mountains where unbroken nature comes down to the very edge of the furnaces and the slag heaps .
he sat down upon a low settee and blinked at us inquiringly with his weak , watery blue eyes .
i associated that instrument with the single weakness of his nature , and i feared the worst when i saw it glittering in his hand .
then , pray , sit down , and let us hear it for there are several points on which i must confess that i am still in the dark .
no i have no idea what he intends to go in for .
if you will come there now , i have something which it is important for you to hear and for me to say .
he was a sunburned , reckless eyed fellow , with a net work of lines and wrinkles all over his mahogany features , which told of a hard , open air life .
holmes sprang to it and pulled it open .
possibly four or five ?
halloa !
the commissionnaire , seeing by my pale face that something was to be feared , had followed me upstairs .
his wife is a bad lot , though .
the county police are utterly at fault ,
i can only claim the merit that i instantly reconsidered my position when , however , it became clear to me that whatever danger threatened an occupant of the room could not come either from the window or the door .
the man glared round him , staggered , and fell senseless upon the floor .
returned holmes , going back to the mat to knock the snow from his shoes .
you are very welcome to both ,
it seems dreadful to discuss the conduct of one 's wife with two men whom i have never seen before .
my eye caught the name of openshaw , and the heading ' tragedy near waterloo bridge .
he was accompanied in his travels by his private secretary , mr joseph stangerson .
my groom and my page sleep out of the house , and may be set aside altogether .
it was the body of a tall , well made man , about forty years of age .
but as i listened to his talk all that was black and bitter in me seemed to come uppermost .
that 's so ,
in one place he gathered up very carefully a little pile of grey dust from the floor , and packed it away in an envelope .
or , filling in the obvious vacancies in the name :
we ought to have very little trouble now .
that his advances should be rejected so brusquely without any reference to the lady 's own wishes and that the lady should accept the situation without protest is very amazing .
exactly .
he spoke on a quick succession of subjects , on miracle plays , on medieval pottery , on stradivarius violins , on the buddhism of ceylon , and on the war ships of the future , handling each as though he had made a special study of it .
such a fact must tell against the theory that the man who breaks them is influenced by any general hatred of napoleon .
simon has no property of his own save the small estate of birchmoor , it is obvious that the californian heiress is not the only gainer by an alliance which will enable her to make the easy and common transition from a republican lady to a british peeress .
we must sit without light .
i know that so far as those three keys are concerned he kept them on the same ring .
come , watson , come !
as to mary jane , she is incorrigible , and my wife has given her notice , but there , again , i fail to see how you work it out .
the inspector and the two detectives had a hurried discussion as to the advisability of allowing him to tell his story .
you see , watson , we have come already upon two sets of foreigners one at wisteria lodge and one at high gable so our gaps are beginning to close .
holmes walked swiftly across the lawn , and we were at the open window of the bedroom long before the others came up .
mcmurdo sat in silence for some time , with the letter in his listless hands .
there could be no doubt that , as it was a national possession , a horrible scandal would ensue if any misfortune should occur to it .
not in reason , sir but this is out of all reason .
my glass allowed me to observe that the plaster was slightly scratched in doing it , which would not have been the case if the man 's nail had been trimmed .
each compartment was bristling with papers and plans .
do i hear the step of a friend ?
if i remember right , he stumbled over a heap of stones , looked up at the stars , and so on .
i had not an idea who you were when you came in .
with the help of a wire , however , they forced round the key .
then , with an extraordinary effort of aristocratic self command , he sat down and sank his face in his hands .
there will be some fun over this case if they are both put upon the scent .
if i can only find what the fellow is driving at by reconciling all these accomplishments , and discovering a calling which needs them all ,
how is it now ?
it is a petty feeling , no doubt , but it hurts my pride .
no , mr holmes , she could not have guessed nor could anyone have guessed .
do n't be frightened , ' said my employer , laughing at the start which i had given .
that was the state of things , watson , when upon the tuesday morning i , at the request of major murphy , went down to aldershot to supplement the efforts of the police .
i met him first at the gasfitters ' ball ,
there is a comfortable sofa .
we turned a corner in the lane as he spoke , and there was the building close beside us .
this is a very obvious way of limiting our field of operations ,
there we have it at last , watson !
suppose that there were really some huge hound loose upon it that would go far to explain everything .
there is an inn here , the red bull , the landlady of which was ill .
our men would know that the chase was hot at their heels , and they would be off out of the country .
you understand , madam , that your husband will be arrested and tried for the death of the man who lies before us ?
i wanted to hire his steam launch .
things were going wrong , and no one could understand why they were going wrong .
how do you know that ?
as to the candle , and the blood , and the writing on the wall , and the ring , they may all be so many tricks to throw the police on to the wrong scent .
sit down on this bench , watson , until a train for chiselhurst arrives , and allow me to lay the evidence before you , imploring you in the first instance to dismiss from your mind the idea that anything which the maid or her mistress may have said must necessarily be true .
i think that i may arrive at my facts most directly by questioning you .
well , i know nothing about them .
cried hall pycroft .
when mr barker arrived the candle was lit and the lamp was out .
i read .
he had turned suddenly , and his long , thin finger was pointing to a hole which had been drilled right through the lower window sash , about an inch above the bottom .
when , in addition , i see a chinese coin hanging from your watch chain , the matter becomes even more simple .
barker stood for a moment with his face set grimly and his strong black eyebrows drawn low in intense thought .
do you open the boys ' letters ?
let us proceed .
she cried .
the police believe that they have evidence in their possession which supplies a very convincing motive for the crime , and altogether it cannot be doubted that sensational developments will follow .
next moment the door was flung open and two men appeared , one of whom was drebber , and the other was a young chap whom i had never seen before .
i dare say not , the leetle baggage !
oh , no my friend watson is a medical man , you know , and he 'll look after you .
i suppose that its influence is physically a bad one .
his left arm has been injured .
with all respect for your natural acumen , i do not think that you are quite a match for the worthy doctor .
well , i 'll come out by the same train to morrow , though it 's more than likely that my report will be a negative one .
these are the sacrifices one makes for one 's country , watson ,
i looked about in the hope of seeing a note , but there was none .
i stared in silence at sherlock holmes , whose lips were compressed and his brows drawn down over his eyes .
there is neither money nor credit in it , and yet one would wish to tidy it up .
the parallel is exact .
do you note the peculiar construction of the sentence ' this account of you we have from all quarters received .
i was seen by the sentinel , who would , i knew , direct the colonel 's attention to my presence .
it was nearly midway between the oak and the house .
i can n't give you the name , sir , but i can give you the initials .
do n't you see , my young friend , that they were very anxious to obtain a specimen of your handwriting , and had no other way of doing it ?
still with the same singular gaze he looked from man to man .
could i not snap the bond ?
gold ring , with masonic device .
i shrugged my shoulders .
do n't get arresting me for the murder ,
i was just balancing whether i should run for it , or whether i should perch behind her landau when a cab came through the street .
it was not the first time that they had handled an unwilling witness .
i swear that he might have twisted it off had i understood what it would mean to garcia .
if you can muzzle that one and put him on a chain i 'll be ready to swear you are the greatest detective of all time .
i cannot explain .
he stamped his feet upon the ground .
has a good practical knowledge of british law .
hence it came about that his farm and all that belonged to him prospered exceedingly .
we found that the news of the arrival of the packet for her illness dated from that time had such an effect upon her as to bring on brain fever .
perhaps some would say she was very handsome .
it was a labyrinth of an old house , with corridors , passages , narrow winding staircases , and little low doors , the thresholds of which were hollowed out by the generations who had crossed them .
there is another , and if i have not promised to marry him at once , at least i can promise no one else .
simply as a mental exercise , without any assertion that it is true , let me indicate a possible line of thought .
curse you , you double traitor !
cried morris .
you have got him !
and the florid face ?
his nostrils seemed to dilate with a purely animal lust for the chase , and his mind was so absolutely concentrated upon the matter before him that a question or remark fell unheeded upon his ears , or , at the most , only provoked a quick , impatient snarl in reply .
it was rare for him to be up after ten at night , and he had invariably breakfasted and gone out before i rose in the morning .
a juryman : did you see nothing which aroused your suspicions when you returned on hearing the cry and found your father fatally injured ?
he seems to be a very respectable , learned , and talented sort of man .
i paid the man and hurried into the church .
and that was a most vague direction .
young speedily proved himself to be a skilful administrator as well as a resolute chief .
now , then !
sparking plugs , eh ?
quite so .
play tricks with me , and i 'll crush you .
i ask you once again why it was that you were so pressing that sir charles should destroy this letter which he received on the day of his death .
to a collector of fairy tales .
he made for the factory in which he worked , and he knew that he had only a few minutes in which to conceal this enormously valuable prize , which would otherwise be found on him when he was searched .
i cried .
suddenly , without any preliminary sound in the midst of the utter stillness , the door of my room swung slowly open .
the woman 's story hung coherently together , and all my questions were unable to shake it .
our morning 's exertions had been too much for my weak health , and i was tired out in the afternoon .
on entering the house , however , i examined , as you remember , the sill and framework of the hall window with my lens , and i could at once see that someone had passed out .
educated eton and oxford .
no doubt his blackmailing case is absorbing all his faculties .
on the other hand , a man should be at his very best and keenest for such nice work as that , and i did not wish to do it when fagged by a long journey .
yes , i can .
very good .
quite so cousins of your mother .
why , of course , the attempted murder of mr sherlock holmes .
mr carruthers apologized to me next day , and assured me that i should never be exposed to such an insult again .
slowly it rose from our souls like the mists from a landscape until peace and reason had returned , and we were sitting upon the grass , wiping our clammy foreheads , and looking with apprehension at each other to mark the last traces of that terrific experience which we had undergone .
it was dated from montague place upon the preceding evening , and ran thus :
by nine o'clock we were all seated in the study , waiting patiently for our man .
you may find it a harder matter than you think .
as to mycroft , i had to confide in him in order to obtain the money which i needed .
he has the tidiest and most orderly brain , with the greatest capacity for storing facts , of any man living .
may i ask who it was who gave me so good a character ?
why should she fight against every admission until it was forced from her ?
his face set hard , and a baleful light sprang up in his grey eyes .
i never hurt man or woman in my life that i know of .
you can see that it is quite charred all down one side .
mcmurdo shrank away from him .
the tremendous exertions which i have gone through during the last day or two have worn me out .
i was badly in need of a case , and this looks , from the man 's impatience , as if it were of importance .
i would warn your grace , however , that the continued presence of mr james wilder in your household can only lead to misfortune .
this godfrey norton was evidently an important factor in the matter .
can you tell me what place this is ?
the duke 's secretary !
and yet there was but one woman to him , and that woman was the late irene adler , of dubious and questionable memory .
it is a blessed night this when i am once more in safety , i and my poor possessions .
i 'm sure it must look very bad , mr holmes , and i am not aware that in my whole life such a thing has ever happened before .
now , how on earth could you know that the stolen silver was at the bottom of that pond ?
i believe that it was undoubtedly so .
it 's british law and order over here , ' says he .
then there was mason of bradford , and the notorious muller , and lefevre of montpellier , and samson of new orleans .
holmes showed me into a small chamber which looked out into pall mall , and then , leaving me for a minute , he came back with a companion whom i knew could only be his brother .
when i was alone once more , however , with the precious case lying upon the table in front of me , i could not but think with some misgivings of the immense responsibility which it entailed upon me .
any news ?
best quality paper .
there is the french ambassador , there is the russian , there is whoever might sell it to either of these , and there is lord holdhurst .
returned my companion , bitterly .
how 's that eh ?
bless the girl , what are you shivering about ?
you were too soft for the job ,
well , i will n't read it verbatim , since you feel so strongly upon the subject .
however , we have no choice as to our action .
one glance at her pale , frightened face showed him that she had heard what had passed .
it is the most lovely country , my dear young lady , and the dearest old country house .
if the lady is hurt as bad as you say , who was it that wrote this note ?
so would my diary , in which , from day to day , i had entered both my feelings towards him and the view which each of us had taken .
it 's their work .
we have got to the deductions and the inferences ,
tut , tut !
who are you , though ?
take a seat , and try one of these cigars ,
he then pushed open the door and entered .
a low moan had fallen upon our ears .
you may find you need it here ,
he cannot escape us , madam .
would you trust me ?
the mere sight of an official looking person seals men 's lips .
not one word of truth has he ever told me .
chesterton , histon , waterbeach , and oakington have each been explored , and have each proved disappointing .
then your brother is
the candle shows that ,
my god !
my first conjecture was , that possibly there had been some passages between this young lady and the old soldier , which the former had now confessed to the wife .
but it 's a rum thing all the same .
these were the men who assembled that night under the roof of mcmurdo for the killing of the pinkerton detective .
his features became tense and alert .
you 're jack mcmurdo of chicago , right enough , and do n't you deny it !
adair might have lost five pounds , but not more .
i am familiar with forty two different impressions left by tires .
an instant later i had come round the end of the hedge and my eyes lit upon mrs douglas and the man barker before they were aware of my presence .
yes , we have had an adventure during the night , and one which might have proved to be a serious one .
the man sat for a minute or more with a heaving chest , fighting against his emotion .
five to four against silver blaze !
if i could only bring you down all would be well .
on examination traces of blood were to be seen upon the windowsill , and several scattered drops were visible upon the wooden floor of the bedroom .
that you have a wee bit of a bee in your bonnet over this professor .
and you think you have evidence that he murdered his late master ?
when he saw the convict approaching him with the bloody knife in his hand he kicked off his bonds , which he had somehow contrived to loosen , and rushing down the deck he plunged into the after hold .
i am an interpreter , as perhaps my neighbor there has told you .
in a sort of dream i remember being half led , half carried to the carriage in the same state i was conveyed to the train .
the man leaned over and pulled up the front of a kind of hutch in the corner .
the box flew open .
her head hung listlessly upon her breast , but as she raised it and turned her dull eyes upon us i saw that her pupils were dark dots in the centre of the broad gray iris .
is toller still drunk ?
did william say anything to his mother before going out ?
cried several voices .
we had taken and furnished a little house in brooklyn , and our whole future seemed assured when that black cloud appeared which was soon to overspread our sky .
i got into his room that same night , though , and i searched his papers to see if there was any record of where he had hidden our jewels .
on the whole ,
i gazed with interest and some surprise upon the portrait .
very likely ,
this way !
cocks and hens ,
when you catch this fellow , you will find that he has one of these multiplex knives in his possession .
perhaps ,
from this he took a paper , and returning to his seat he flattened it out beside the taper on the edge of the table , and began to study it with minute attention .
or to sit here , or sit there , that would not be offensive to you ?
of course you observed the peculiarly square toes in the impressions , and that his own boots exactly corresponded to them .
how can you say that ?
peace seemed to be settling upon the country , and we four were beginning to hope that the time was at hand when we might safely go off with our shares of the plunder .
i have spoken of the impression of flabbiness which this man blessington conveyed .
a lamb , i should say , or a kid .
i am very much mistaken if you have not touched the spot .
i 'd never hold my head up again if i felt that i had been driven out .
i am sorry to give you such a two edged thing , but i can n't say what turn things are going to take .
yes , miss mr rucastle let me out when he came back before he went up to you .
about a month before .
thank you .
why , what do you mean ?
here is the note written in pencil over here .
i was myself in my room , and i never left it during the day .
then , unable to settle down to reading , i walked slowly round the room , examining the pictures of celebrated criminals with which every wall was adorned .
i can n't make the man out .
there rose through the clear air a confused clattering and rumbling from this great mass of humanity , with the creaking of wheels and the neighing of horses .
so we have contracted our field of search to a large book , printed in double columns and in common use .
there was a singular prominence about his bearded chin which marked a man who was not to be easily turned from his purpose .
it will be for the maiden to decide ,
i took the precious case into my hands and looked in some perplexity from it to my illustrious client .
he cried .
i can hardly see how the lady could have acted otherwise , though her abrupt method of doing it was undoubtedly to be regretted .
well , sir , you certainly got equal with me on that .
that comes of being an unofficial personage .
my husband 's anguish at the loss of his paper went to my heart .
good heavens , holmes !
our drive pulled up at a house which was not unlike the one which we had just quitted .
i can but tell you vat the whole vorld knows , mister .
i cannot waste time over this sort of fantastic talk , mr holmes ,
no , it was done elsewhere , i should say .
there is no middle way .
it has brought me close to the one thing on earth that was dear to me .
i knew it by the way he looked at unexpected strangers .
there had been some visitors , and the door was open so there was nothing to prevent him .
and , indeed , i could not wonder that such a man as sir george burnwell should gain an influence over him , for he has frequently brought him to my house , and i have found myself that i could hardly resist the fascination of his manner .
i 'll be back some time , watson ,
can you ask me , then , whether i am ready to look into any new problem , however trivial it may prove ?
here the cabman was directed to wait .
any fresh news ?
wonderful !
the other is my wife , and i can answer for it that the sound could not have come from her .
holmes was endeavouring to utter a few words of consolation and to explain the alarm which had been caused to his friends by his sudden disappearance when there was a step upon the stairs , and there was the heavy , stern , questioning face of dr armstrong at the door .
not him .
it was a dark , handsome , clear cut face which confronted milverton a face with a curved nose , strong , dark eyebrows shading hard , glittering eyes , and a straight , thin lipped mouth set in a dangerous smile .
i put the case into your hands and shall do exactly what you advise .
my sole duties , then , ' i asked , ' are to take charge of a single child ?
i have done a good deal of business in germany in the past and my name is probably familiar to you .
these shoes ,
he waved his hand , and they scampered away downstairs like so many rats , and we heard their shrill voices next moment in the street .
very well .
well , when once his case has been settled , he will have a regular prison bath and i think , if you saw him , you would agree with me that he needed it .
so your son was gone at least two hours ?
we had no clue in the acton affair .
his eyes rolled upwards , his features writhed in agony , and with a suppressed groan he dropped on his face upon the ground .
the gloria scott had been in the chinese tea trade , but she was an old fashioned , heavy bowed , broad beamed craft , and the new clippers had cut her out .
i therefore spent some days in the east end , devised an arctic expedition , put forth tempting terms for harpooners who would serve under captain basil and behold the result !
there could be no doubt that that circlet of plain gold had once adorned the finger of a bride .
he opened it at the breech , put something in , and snapped the breech lock .
i hear that it was during the night , sir , but it has got worse , and the whole place is in a blaze .
i was half dragged up to the altar , and before i knew where i was i found myself mumbling responses which were whispered in my ear , and vouching for things of which i knew nothing , and generally assisting in the secure tying up of irene adler , spinster , to godfrey norton , bachelor .
he had also played there in the afternoon .
always !
your arrest as a suspicious character would be a most unfortunate complication .
our boat lay , rising and falling , upon the long , smooth rollers , and evans and i , who were the most educated of the party , were sitting in the sheets working out our position and planning what coast we should make for .
from crime to crime he sank lower and lower until it is only the mercy of god which has snatched him from the scaffold but to me , sir , he was always the little curly headed boy that i had nursed and played with as an elder sister would .
to inform the police must , in the long run , mean to inform the public .
during the whole of that day they struggled on through the defiles , and by evening they calculated that they were more than thirty miles from their enemies .
or else he will be led now to the heart of the mystery .
he had hardly completed his arrangements before the farmer returned with his daughter all dressed and ready for a start .
it was a wonderfully silent house .
was there nothing to identify this man ?
the dress which i found waiting for me was of a peculiar shade of blue .
it 's a business that needs delicate treatment ,
looking back , the huge house was one blaze of light .
it was late before sherlock holmes returned .
and why should gypsies kidnap him ?
in all your career you have never had so great a chance of serving your country .
if ever i have suggested things , so as to keep my place among you , they were things which i knew i could prevent .
this is beyond anything which i could have imagined .
again and much louder came the rat tat tat .
he was murdered ?
did this man bannister know ?
at camberwell i found miss morstan a little weary after her night 's adventures , but very eager to hear the news .
and , what is more , i can do you justice and i will , too , whatever brother bartholomew may say .
we agreed to work on our own lines , mr holmes .
his eyes fairly glittered as he spoke , and he put his hand over his heart and bowed as if to some applauding crowd conjured up by his imagination .
he had picked from a drawer a little tarnished cylinder , and , undoing the tape , he handed me a short note scrawled upon a half sheet of slate gray paper .
we have no proof that the person who came back was the person who went out .
they have been warned for service .
you see no difficulty , heh ?
it follows , therefore , that barrymore , since only this window would serve the purpose , must have been looking out for something or somebody upon the moor .
she was never engaged to me .
she told us many details about her brother in law the steward , and then wandering off on the subject of her former lodgers , the medical students , she gave us a long account of their delinquencies , with their names and those of their hospitals .
i have seen his testimonials , and from the first he was a decent , quiet , hard working fellow , with no weak spot in him at all .
quite so .
you will , i am sure , excuse me ,
a real downright snorter , mr macdonald !
simon is a myth .
now , it was equally certain that , immediately on her return , she had gone to the room in which she was least likely to see her husband , had flown to tea as an agitated woman will , and finally , on his coming in to her , had broken into violent recriminations .
at the sight there was a general reining up of horses and unslinging of guns , while fresh horsemen came galloping up to reinforce the vanguard .
at the mention of this gigantic sum we all stared at one another open eyed .
have you found it , wiggins ?
she rose briskly from her chair with the anxiety all swept from her face .
i remained at the gate way with the lantern .
across the middle of it a single sentence had been formed by the expedient of pasting printed words upon it .
it must be one of them .
sir it ran :
the black swan is an inn of repute in the high street , at no distance from the station , and there we found the young lady waiting for us .
well , he must have been disturbed in his mind to leave a pipe behind him which he evidently values highly .
god bless you !
well , we have several , but we can only test their value by further inquiry .
he was ready enough to join the conspiracy , as the only means of saving ourselves , and before we had crossed the bay there were only two of the prisoners who were not in the secret .
but i did some little distance off , but fresh and clear .
into his own hands ?
it is in your interest and everyone 's interest that they should be cleared up .
i see that you have quite gone over to the supernaturalists .
if you should care to call upon me i could give you some particulars as to her painful history .
look down the valley !
bad , sir , very bad , but an old man has few pleasures .
why , it is simple enough .
mcmurdo gave a violent start .
i guess she is now ,
it is k .
there it was again upon our left !
the tragedy was still black enough , but this man had at least deserved death by the laws of his country .
either that or i would do justice upon him with my own hand .
how high was it ?
several .
we tied all his things into a bundle , and i weighted them with the only weight i could find and put them through the window .
a bit closer , mr mcmurdo for we do n't take folk on trust in these parts , nor believe all we 're told neither .
they are very violent .
we have picked up two clues this morning .
no one but an anarchist would go about breaking statues .
beppo did not despair , and he conducted his search with considerable ingenuity and perseverance .
there 's someone in here ,
i can hardly recall any case where the features have been more peculiar .
well , sir , if it is n't too great a liberty , i am a neighbour of yours , for you 'll find my little bookshop at the corner of church street , and very happy to see you , i am sure .
it is lined with cocoanut matting and had taken no impression of any kind .
very possibly !
he knew that city well and had worked there .
presently some luggage was brought out , and after a time drebber and stangerson followed it , and drove off .
yours faithfully ,
all three of them , the dead woman and the two demented men , retained upon their faces an expression of the utmost horror a convulsion of terror which was dreadful to look upon .
this hat is three years old .
surely you are not going !
did n't he get the telegram ?
we stumbled slowly along in the darkness , with the black loom of the craggy hills around us , and the yellow speck of light burning steadily in front .
i stooped over him and examined him .
there 's no one who can stand between us .
cried holmes .
if you did n't see him , how do you know he was in the loft ?
you are the only other person , save only these politicians , who knows the true facts .
what one man can invent another can discover ,
i am so very glad ,
the man pervades london , and no one has heard of him .
why should he change his name in a country where no one knew his original one ?
well , then , i 'll help you .
because no witness dares to appear against them .
besides , there was no real difficulty .
i have no idea what backward sweep of memory had brought the matter fresh to his mind , or what freak had caused him to desire that i should recount it but i hasten , before another cancelling telegram may arrive , to hunt out the notes which give me the exact details of the case and to lay the narrative before my readers .
the little band who had been told off for duty passed out into the street , proceeding in twos and threes along the sidewalk so as not to provoke attention .
speaking professionally , it was admirably done ,
i have hardly had time to think over all that you have told me .
the richest and glossiest of curtains and tapestries draped the walls , looped back here and there to expose some richly mounted painting or oriental vase .
would that i had some brighter ending to communicate to my readers , but these are the chronicles of fact , and i must follow to their dark crisis the strange chain of events which for some days made riding thorpe manor a household word through the length and breadth of england .
he therefore accosted him when he got up to him , with the object of finding out what lucy ferrier 's fate had been .
he did n't mind me in fact , he took a fancy to me , for at the time when he saw me first i was a youngster of twelve or so .
mr holmes , i am the unhappy john hector mcfarlane .
he was a dangerous suitor , with his glib irish tongue , and his pretty , coaxing ways .
her friends , shocked at the event , had contented themselves with informing her brother at athens , and had then washed their hands of the matter .
some day , perhaps , but not just at present , jack .
quite true , watson .
so far as the barrymores go we have found the motive of their actions , and that has cleared up the situation very much .
i was a strollin ' down , thinkin ' between ourselves how uncommon handy a four of gin hot would be , when suddenly the glint of a light caught my eye in the window of that same house .
pray consider yourself definitely engaged .
he shot a questioning glance at each of us , placed his shiny top hat upon the sideboard , and with a slight bow sidled down into the nearest chair .
theresa was always my friend , for she loved mary and hated this villain almost as much as i did .
they come at me like bullets .
we were hardly quick enough with our pistols .
mr thaddeus sholto ,
good lord !
you want to sell them .
my results are always very much at your service if you care to apply to me for them .
he cried ,
well , if we can n't we can n't ,
who was to tell us what had happened then ?
what woman could ever be worthy of such a man ?
why , mr holmes , you 'll hardly believe it , but ever since that girl has been in my employment i never once let her go past this house , where i knew the rascals were lurking , without following her on my bicycle , just to see that she came to no harm .
no , but you evidently think it .
was meant to attract the attention of whoever it was that he had the appointment with .
it does give a clue .
yes , it was twisted .
not much , mr holmes , among the millions of london .
these rooms appeared to be much more modern than the central part of the house , and the bright paper and numerous candles did something to remove the sombre impression which our arrival had left upon my mind .
mr holmes ,
but he would not abandon his position without a struggle .
he 's our leading man about here , is old cunningham , and a very decent fellow too .
we can now see a reason for the disappearance of garcia 's household .
no one could have known .
you are the one fixed point in a changing age .
a moment later there came , to my horror , a rush of footsteps coming in my direction , with the loud breathing of a running man .
i presume that you made an inventory of what he had in his pockets at the time of his death , inspector ?
every precaution is necessary when dealing with such a fellow .
from year 's end to year 's end he takes no other exercise , and is seen nowhere else , except only in the diogenes club , which is just opposite his rooms
but whatever the true explanation of barrymore 's movements might be , i felt that the responsibility of keeping them to myself until i could explain them was more than i could bear .
wonderful !
i am sure that you inquired your way merely in order that you might see him .
they had reached the very wildest and most desolate portion of the pass when the girl gave a startled cry , and pointed upwards .
holmes shook his head good humouredly .
the whole place was turned upside down , drawers burst open , and presses ransacked , with the result that an odd volume of pope 's ' homer , ' two plated candlesticks , an ivory letter weight , a small oak barometer , and a ball of twine are all that have vanished .
but how ?
he was an impetuous man , quick in his decisions .
ask him how he dared to admit people and leave them alone in this room .
he clapped his hand into his pocket , and i raised the pistol from the table .
where to ?
then it has nothing to do with the crime , anyhow ,
it 's a good deal broader than any bootmark .
i will , miss turner .
why was some one so anxious to get possession of it ?
stand back !
nothing more is known of them until mr drebber 's body was , as recorded , discovered in an empty house in the brixton road , many miles from euston .
i have had something quite after your own heart a most singular problem submitted to my judgment .
upon the card by the dead body might stand for vermissa valley , or that this very valley which sends forth emissaries of murder may be that valley of fear of which we have heard .
he shouted , struggling to break away from her .
he wanted her to sign a paper , so that whether she married or not , he could use her money .
mrs warren , you say that the man was of middle size , dark , and bearded .
on the other hand , if i should find the hut and its tenant should not be within it i must remain there , however long the vigil , until he returned .
' i guess you should , ' said i .
there he goes again !
oh , so so .
i should like a few particulars as to this young lady , and your relations to her .
to commit a crime would be to show where he was hiding .
she was an interesting person , this stern australian nurse taciturn , suspicious , ungracious , it took some time before holmes 's pleasant manner and frank acceptance of all that she said thawed her into a corresponding amiability .
well , hardly that .
he always went about armed .
there was seldom much over , but i managed to scrape along somehow .
anything more ?
it seemed to me to be something grey in colour , a coat of some sort , or a plaid perhaps .
then let us go and look at the room .
phelps seized his hand and kissed it .
heavy steps and the clamor of loud voices were audible from below , and the hall door shut with a loud crash .
no , no , he found it .
any attempt upon your part to follow the carriage can only end in injury to yourself .
our inquiries led to no result and from that day to this no word has ever been heard of my unfortunate father .
above were three students , one on each story .
my blood ran cold in my veins , for there was a break in his voice which told of the sudden horror which had seized him .
he will arise and smite you !
if they have been living in the same place during this time , it is probable that we shall have some answer to mycroft 's advertisement .
it was the same good friend whose warning i had so foolishly rejected .
if any little problem comes your way , i shall be happy , if i can , to give you a hint or two as to its solution .
the bartender stood abashed .
there have ,
the matter does not rest with colonel ross .
even the agra treasure had come to be a smaller thing in my mind than the slaying of sholto .
so much for the police court ,
all the good work which has been done by sir charles will crash to the ground if there is no tenant of the hall .
what has he done , then ?
he had not gone to bed , and the note was taken to his room .
and you have been most intimately associated with some one whose initials were j .
to some of the elders it seemed that the progress was a little too rapid .
about sunset , however , their efforts were at last successful , and they subdued the flames , but not before the roof had fallen in , and the whole place been reduced to such absolute ruin that , save some twisted cylinders and iron piping , not a trace remained of the machinery which had cost our unfortunate acquaintance so dearly .
therefore , we can say for certain that young cadogan west was placed on it .
then leave it at that and keep your head shut .
i think i can prove that the poison acts so quickly that the man was dead before ever you reached the room .
von bork walked slowly back to the study when the last gleams of the motor lamps had faded into the distance .
what do you think of this , watson ?
and a man of precise mind , evidently .
upon my word , you may put it down to my weak nerves or not , but i believe there is some deep political intrigue going on around me , and that for some reason that passes my understanding my life is aimed at by the conspirators .
i sat up all night with paper and ink , and by the morning i had the two charts all ready , signed with the sign of four , that is , of abdullah , akbar , mahomet , and myself .
now you , with this sporting pose of yours
you 'll come , gower , and you , mansel , and you , scanlan , and the two willabys .
cried our client , flushing up to the roots of his flaming head .
finally , finding him proof against every threat , they had hurled him back into his prison , and after reproaching melas with his treachery , which appeared from the newspaper advertisement , they had stunned him with a blow from a stick , and he remembered nothing more until he found us bending over him .
they hunted me from chicago to california , then they chased me out of america but when i married and settled down in this quiet spot i thought my last years were going to be peaceable .
then it is he whom you suspect ?
i 'll light my spirit lamp , and give you a cup of coffee before we start .
my stepfather learned of the engagement when my sister returned and offered no objection to the marriage but within a fortnight of the day which had been fixed for the wedding , the terrible event occurred which has deprived me of my only companion .
of mrs hilton cubitt i only know that i have heard she recovered entirely , and that she still remains a widow , devoting her whole life to the care of the poor and to the administration of her husband 's estate .
i think you must agree , watson , that it is not a case in which we are called upon to interfere .
i have already explained to you that what is out of the common is usually a guide rather than a hindrance .
you must not fear ,
you 'll tell me that in a month 's time .
i had almost overcome my pride so far as to go back to the agency and inquire whether the place was still open when i received this letter from the gentleman himself .
on rising at seven , one of the maids noticed that the door of the hut was open , but so great was the terror which the man caused that it was midday before anyone would venture down to see what had become of him .
it must be in her own house .
oh , mr holmes , you must save him you must save him !
we had come to a point where a narrow grassy path struck off from the road and wound away across the moor .
main stair , first corridor , seventh right , green baize .
well , it is very ingenious ,
no , i see nothing .
whether achmet the merchant lived or died was a thing as light as air to me , but at the talk about the treasure my heart turned to it , and i thought of what i might do in the old country with it , and how my folk would stare when they saw their ne'er do well coming back with his pockets full of gold moidores .
so i should say .
i had worn out my boots paddling up office stairs , and i seemed just as far from getting a billet as ever .
i am reckoned fleet of foot , but he outpaced me as much as i outpaced the little professional .
i ought to have known that before ever i saw the box at all .
my heart had turned to lead .
you will take this train to town , cartwright .
it is not part of my duties to my client , but here 's a hunting crop handy , and i think i shall just treat myself to
he continued , buttoning up his coat as we came out into the frosty air .
what do you suggest ?
i do n't think i 'd begin with mike scanlan or his gang if i were you .
he seemed to be all in a quiver with fear , for his hands twitched as if he had the ague , and his head kept turning to left and right with two bright little twinkling eyes , like a mouse when he ventures out from his hole .
another heading was argentine , another costa rica , and another san paulo , each with pages of signs and figures after it .
yes , sir i married , and so left the hospital , and with it all hopes of a consulting practice .
listen , holmes !
i feel quite strong enough , if i can really be of any help .
so i had to be content with that , though it was the first time that there had ever been any secret between us .
it is the first shadow that has come between us , and it has so shaken me that i do not know what i should do for the best .
but he was always kind to the boy in his own way .
again barker showed some signs of indecision .
i trust that sir henry is none the worse for his journey ?
very simply .
you put it there !
she must think of her future .
do n't drop the instruments , i beg .
the whole place , with its scattered dirt heaps and ill grown shrubs , had a blighted , ill omened look which harmonized with the black tragedy which hung over it .
i have my old service revolver and a few cartridges .
then , watson , we will postpone our breakfast .
have you heard nothing of doings hereabouts ?
i rang the bell and called for the weekly county paper , which contained a verbatim account of the inquest .
it would indeed be a triumph for me if i could run him to earth where my master had failed .
the boy had some slight difficulty in undoing the heavy iron gates , and we heard the hoarse roar of the doctor 's voice and saw the fury with which he shook his clinched fists at him .
done with a broad pointed pen , probably a j , and with very inferior ink .
your merits should be publicly recognized .
i told them all that we had done , suppressing , however , the more dreadful parts of the tragedy .
what really counts is your remark that there is some connection between the professor and the crime .
then one morning there came an enigmatic note slipped into our letter box .
you have saved my honor .
there is some small mistake about a telegram i sent yesterday .
godfrey staunton you 've heard of him , of course ?
good heavens !
he is at present reported from leicester , nottingham , southampton , derby , east ham , richmond , and fourteen other places .
it must have lasted for some time , for it was then that these cigars were smoked .
as you know , he never held up his head again .
there was no help for it , however : the savage instincts of his companion had broken out , and the poison had done its work : so jonathan small left his record , lowered the treasure box to the ground , and followed it himself .
in this he failed , but alexis was sent a convict to siberia , where now , at this moment , he works in a salt mine .
when i hear you give your reasons ,
i have some record of the fellow , and he is a rough customer .
i know your methods , sir , and i applied them .
may i ask if you are very busy just now ?
it is true .
and you know where they are .
we had all listened intently to this remarkable statement .
at last that strange hush was broken .
murmured holmes , settling himself down in his armchair and closing his eyes .
there would be one to reading in less than an hour .
the letter which i hold in my hand is from lord st .
the small men could not harm us .
she knocked at the door surprise visit , i guess , for he kept his life in water tight compartments he let her in , could n't keep her in the street .
already i was unable to stand erect , when my eye caught something which brought a gush of hope back to my heart .
from the baffled look upon holmes 's face , i could see clearly that he did .
with the brow of a philosopher above and the jaw of a sensualist below , the man must have started with great capacities for good or for evil .
it is a snorter .
she did not hear the study door close , but a minute or so later there was a dreadful cry in the room below .
you statement has been so explicit ,
but you notice that he keeps on the pavement , whereas the barrel passed down the roadway .
he groaned and was silent for a few moments .
i am a widower and have an only son , arthur .
i shall drop round early to morrow morning and chat the matter over .
having thus divided his hoard , he threw himself into the cause of the sepoys , since they were strong upon his borders .
he was clad only in his long night dress , and his swollen ankles and ungainly feet protruded starkly from beneath it .
there 's nothing to show who he was ,
that very night , as the half drunken company broke up , he touched mcmurdo on the arm and led him aside into that inner room where they had their first interview .
i can see him plainly .
yes , we have been married five years .
which is it to be , death or life ?
and yet , in spite of all these disadvantages , there was a certain nobility in the woman 's bearing a gallantry in the defiant chin and in the upraised head , which compelled something of respect and admiration .
my mind was instantly filled with suspicion .
yes , sir , my name was selden , and he is my younger brother .
bartholomew is a clever fellow ,
anyhow , some of you will take no further hand , and there are sixty more besides yourselves that will see a jail this night .
the moon was low upon the right , and the jagged pinnacle of a granite tor stood up against the lower curve of its silver disc .
colonel ross still wore an expression which showed the poor opinion which he had formed of my companion 's ability , but i saw by the inspector 's face that his attention had been keenly aroused .
how , then , can england come in , especially when we have stirred her up such a devil 's brew of irish civil war , window breaking furies , and god knows what to keep her thoughts at home .
but i should be glad that you should add this case to your annals , for there are points in it which make it quite unique in the criminal records of this or , i believe , of any other country .
i trust ,
we ran frantically down the path , which wound among the trees .
we took no pains to hide it .
there are certainly one or two indications upon the stick .
that circle is drawn at a radius of ten miles from the village .
he was quite dead .
you really have done remarkably badly .
this observation of his had the natural effect of removing any traces of doubt which might have remained in the minds of the coroner 's jury .
very good .
if you force your way into that cottage , all is over between us .
you can look into it from the road , you see .
my health is somewhat fragile ,
no , sir , one theatre party came in late .
briefly they are these :
yes , he was his heir , and the old boy is nearly eighty cram full of gout , too .
your stepfather , surely , since the name is different .
this fellow had drebber by the collar , and when they came to the head of the steps he gave him a shove and a kick which sent him half across the road .
holmes lit his cigar and leaned back in his chair .
pray sit down on the sofa ,
i have complete confidence in his discretion , and he had orders , if he were dissatisfied , to proceed no further in the matter .
in this early stage , i want you to realize those geographical features which may have a good deal to do with our investigation .
across this bare space there was scrawled in blood red letters a single word
suddenly he sat up with a rigid intentness upon his haggard face .
just sit in the corner there , that your footprints may not complicate matters .
i continued .
as he came out into the glimmering patch of light , we saw that he carried something white under his arm .
cried the banker impatiently ,
you have erred perhaps in attempting to put colour and life into each of your statements instead of confining yourself to the task of placing upon record that severe reasoning from cause to effect which is really the only notable feature about the thing .
it was a bitter night , so we drew on our ulsters and wrapped cravats about our throats .
i am not in an official position , and there is no reason , so long as the ends of justice are served , why i should disclose all that i know .
you have confessed that you asked sir charles to be at the gate at ten o clock .
ah , watson ,
i have had an answer .
he had hardly started , however , before he realized the difficulty which faced him .
what do you call purely nominal ?
with a darkening face my friend strode along the margin , eagerly observant of every muddy stain upon the mossy surface .
then he was absolutely untiring and indefatigable .
i say , watson , what o'clock is it ?
that would be nearer half past four than six at this time of year .
see here , brother morris , i have my eye on you , and have had for some time !
i do n't wonder that you are surprised , ' said she , and i could see that her fingers were trembling as she undid the fastenings of her mantle .
yes , indeed ,
how deep is it ?
how blind i have been !
it was quite against my wishes that she came , but she is a very excitable , impulsive girl , as you may have noticed , and she is not easily controlled when she has made up her mind on a point .
none the less , he nerved himself to step resolutely out , and as he did so the pressure melted away .
there was nothing markedly abnormal in any of these conditions , which harmonized with my former experiences .
carried off from where ?
my last client of the sort was a king .
from his spats to his gold rimmed spectacles he was a conservative , a churchman , a good citizen , orthodox and conventional to the last degree .
our visitor had consumed his milk and biscuits .
the governor is dying , ' were the first words he said .
he dodged round the table as quick as an eel , and a moment later he 'd got his gun from under his coat .
let us say no more about it .
commonplace ,
clair 's house .
but you are the one that i can speak to and be safe .
we have this beppo as a common factor , both in kennington and in kensington , so that is worth a ten mile drive .
may i ask , in the meanwhile , whether you have yourself any theory to account for this young man 's disappearance ?
look at this map .
a blaze of yellow light streamed out upon us , and in the centre of the glare there stood a small man with a very high head , a bristle of red hair all round the fringe of it , and a bald , shining scalp which shot out from among it like a mountain peak from fir trees .
and then , gradually , i understood that it was more than dislike .
you hold on to him , and you may kiss the book that he 'll haul you through .
he was cordial and intimate with douglas , and he was no less friendly with his wife a friendship which more than once seemed to cause some irritation to the husband , so that even the servants were able to perceive his annoyance .
it is that the chief proof of man 's real greatness lies in his perception of his own smallness .
will you come ?
the dog 's jaw , as shown in the space between these marks , is too broad in my opinion for a terrier and not broad enough for a mastiff .
it may be that the police resented the intrusion of an amateur , or that they imagined themselves to be upon some hopeful line of investigation but it is certain that we heard nothing from them for the next two days .
yes , gentlemen ,
your tidiness will n't bear much strain after all , watson .
the horse was alone before ,
there had been no robbery , nor is there any evidence as to how the man met his death .
she had been engaged to me , and she would have married me , i believe , if i had taken over another profession , but she would have nothing to do with anything on the cross .
the latter was known to be in town on monday and is now reported as having left .
and we , my poor watson , want overcoats and cravats and goloshes , and every aid that man ever invented to fight the weather .
this matter , from what you say , seems to have been a shock to her also .
he shuffled towards the door , but athelney jones got in front of him .
have you made any inquiries as to this man , stangerson ?
and ask at the station office if there is a message for me .
the woman stood with her hand buried in her bosom , and the same deadly smile on her thin lips .
so we can put aside all idea of the man having been drowned in crossing .
you 'd best hurry yourselves !
i have only to raise my voice and i could call my servants and have you arrested .
as to the lodge , was n't it the order of the bodymaster that the man was not to be killed and what are you doing but killing him ?
and that !
anyhow , friend porlock is evidently scared out of his senses kindly compare the writing in the note to that upon its envelope which was done , he tells us , before this ill omened visit .
the man that the whole force has been seeking in vain colonel sebastian moran , who shot the honourable ronald adair with an expanding bullet from an air gun through the open window of the second floor front of no .
he had already , in spite of the rain , taken off his overcoat in order to do his delicate task , and so , as he fell , his knife gashed his thigh .
so you are good enough to pass my appearance ?
what business ?
a very deep , malicious , vindictive person is the gentleman who is now waiting us downstairs .
my work there is but half finished .
he is a tall man , sunburned , very powerful , not more than thirty .
then it is you who sent me a telegram .
this bicycle and a small valise were his whole belongings .
in his own mind he had a very definite theory about the murder .
for goodness ' sake , come down and lend me a hand .
there was not one who did not sink upon his knees in heartfelt prayer when they saw the broad valley of utah bathed in the sunlight beneath them , and learned from the lips of their leader that this was the promised land , and that these virgin acres were to be theirs for evermore .
you have paid me several compliments , mr moriarty ,
if it is to morrow we shall be more ready still .
i should say not .
so long as the law does not find some other victim you are safe from me .
the police have really done nothing locally , save the arrest of these gipsies .
the bar is on the other side .
yes , i was certain it was a seaman .
the local house agent could tell me nothing about charlington hall , and referred me to a well known firm in pall mall .
it proved , however , that our vigil was not to be so long as holmes had led us to fear , and it ended in a very sudden and singular fashion .
left his lodgings at ten o'clock at night , and has not been heard of since .
but where could such a hound lie concealed , where did it get its food , where did it come from , how was it that no one saw it by day ?
those are the lights of harwich , i suppose ,
i have every hope , however , that your horse will start upon tuesday , and i beg that you will have your jockey in readiness .
he tried to get in with the blade of a very small penknife .
there was little difficulty in entering the grounds , for unrepaired breaches gaped in the old park wall .
the dead man 's right arm was thrust out from his dressing gown , and exposed as high as the elbow .
at last my foot was on the threshold of his hiding place his secret was within my grasp .
a look of surprise passed over the face of my companion as he listened to it .
can you come at once ?
they know nothing .
and then suddenly , in the very dead of the night , there came a sound to my ears , clear , resonant , and unmistakable .
spare no money ,
would you kindly send one of your constables for two buckets of water ?
this is how i should work it .
those are the crucial points upon which the case depends .
that i have got into the way of being a law to myself .
quite so !
she rose at once .
let us venture it .
it was like the sound which a mouse makes when it is gnawing a plank , and i lay listening to it for some time under the impression that it must come from that cause .
john clayton , turpey street , the borough .
he shook his head with a half smile at mcmurdo .
i could very easily give you half a dozen ,
the sailor thought for a little .
for heaven 's sake , do n't tell him !
it was at tunbridge wells then that he had become conscious of some danger .
i had inquiries made , and there is a launch of that description .
i think that you know as much as i do now probably more .
mr windibank did not wish us to go .
i know that every word is true , for you have hardly said a word which i did not know .
i think that i quite follow you ,
it is possible even that you may have heard that through my uncle 's influence i obtained a good appointment at the foreign office , and that i was in a situation of trust and honor until a horrible misfortune came suddenly to blast my career .
is that not so ?
nothing could exceed his energy when the working fit was upon him but now and again a reaction would seize him , and for days on end he would lie upon the sofa in the sitting room , hardly uttering a word or moving a muscle from morning to night .
they are taking them to helston .
now , there is no one more easy to trace than a schoolmaster .
i had persuaded myself that we should find mr douglas under this roof .
they had not the money nor the power .
i remember ,
i have nothing more to say , mr holmes , except that i was angry with my wife that night for having held me back when i might have caught the skulking rascal .
he held out his muscular hand ,
she drew a large silver locket from her bosom .
i say normal cases , because ill health and physical weakness reproduce the signs of old age , even when the invalid is a youth .
it ran :
what does her clever stepfather do then ?
i made no allusion to what had passed , and waited with some curiosity to see how he would cover his disgrace .
next day he interviewed his two subordinates , manders and reilly , reckless youngsters who were as elated as if it were a deer hunt .
it argues the degree in which i had lost touch with my profession that the name of leslie armstrong was unknown to me .
the opium was probably brought from london .
upon this one point your whole faith shall be tested so it has been decided in the sacred council of four .
in ordinary life , he was a strict puritan a silent , gloomy fellow .
in that way i did n't know much of what was going on outside , and i was always glad of a bit of news .
it was only a little thing , too .
when i came , i found him three parts drunk and in a vile temper .
i shrank back into the darkest corner and cocked the pistol in my pocket , determined not to discover myself until i had an opportunity of seeing something of the stranger .
i had sprung for the poker , and it was a fair fight between us .
or to pain her , perhaps .
so had the quarter sessions , at which he was acquitted as having acted in self defense .
it was a bearded , hairy face , with wild cruel eyes and an expression of concentrated malevolence .
but he wrote it in your presence .
should i change it first or not ?
who are you , i 'd like to know , to break into a house in this fashion and molest honest , law abiding men ?
i may tell you that poor douglas had just one fault in the world , and that was his jealousy .
it is my strong impression that i heard it , and yet , among the crash of the gale and the creaking of an old house , i may possibly have been deceived .
i 've had a plain clothes man waiting at the station all the week .
i say that this was obviously impossible .
but i do n't think it struck him in that light when he first called us in .
a sudden idea occurred to me , and i took the candle from the trembling hand of the butler .
the triggers had been wired together , so as to make the simultaneous discharge more destructive .
a burly sussex policeman and i had found it no light job .
he stammered .
sherlock holmes sprang out of his chair as if he had been galvanised .
no sign of a ladder ?
there he is stepping into it .
the boy 's chamber was carefully examined , and yielded nothing save the absolute conviction that it was only through the window that he could have escaped .
i reviewed the whole extraordinary sequence of events as i rattled on through the silent gas lit streets .
without his scrapbooks , his chemicals , and his homely untidiness , he was an uncomfortable man .
it is indeed , a fearful place .
it only remains , therefore , to discover what is wanted by this german who writes upon bohemian paper and prefers wearing a mask to showing his face .
about two in the morning i was seated by the window , all being dark save for the moonlight outside , when i heard steps behind me , and there was my wife in her dressing gown .
he had dressed himself fully , before going off , in his usual school suit of black eton jacket and dark gray trousers .
do n't be disturbed or fear for me .
of course i must have met him if he had come the other way .
it gave me a kind of savage joy when i thought how sarah would feel when she had such signs as these of what her meddling had brought about .
returned holmes ,
as to the other servants , they had all gone to bed , and the alarm did not reach them until just before the police arrived .
we had occasion to raise it .
what do you make of that , watson ?
his wife ?
dear me , this is very disappointing !
yet upon that afternoon , whether it was the beaune which i had taken with my lunch , or the additional exasperation produced by the extreme deliberation of his manner , i suddenly felt that i could hold out no longer .
the laurels among which we lay were immediately opposite the window and not more than a hundred feet from it .
how has all gone with you musgrave ?
he was fully dressed , and had apparently already been out .
you did not see anyone else in the room ?
there were carpet slippers on his bare feet .
this is the dundas separation case , and , as it happens , i was engaged in clearing up some small points in connection with it .
that we had best take up our position behind the door .
still , i bear no grudge for that .
well , well ,
what 's he waiting for ?
i have been commissioned to recover this immensely important paper .
with bow , a smile , and a twinkle , milverton was out of the room , and a few moments after we heard the slam of the carriage door and the rattle of the wheels as he drove away .
i shall write to you about it .
miss morstan , however , was in the drawing room : so to the drawing room i went , box in hand , leaving the obliging inspector in the cab .
he sank back into the state of intense and silent thought from which he had emerged but it seemed to me , accustomed as i was to his every mood , that some new possibility had dawned suddenly upon him .
looking for lodgings .
god keep you out of the clutches of such a man as he .
that miss flora millar , the lady who had caused the disturbance , has actually been arrested .
looking over his shoulder , i saw that on the pavement opposite there stood a large woman with a heavy fur boa round her neck , and a large curling red feather in a broad brimmed hat which was tilted in a coquettish duchess of devonshire fashion over her ear .
do n't let there be any mistake about that .
you could not distinguish .
at last i became so convinced that i was causing him uneasiness that i drew my visit to a close .
lopez addressed the note which i had written , sealed it with his sleeve link , and sent it by the hand of the servant , jose .
in his bedroom at his new abode mcmurdo felt it safe to take out the coining moulds , and under many a pledge of secrecy a number of brothers from the lodge were allowed to come in and see them , each carrying away in his pocket some examples of the false money , so cunningly struck that there was never the slightest difficulty or danger in passing it .
and these other people ?
i think we have done all that can be done ,
we had traversed streatham , brixton , camberwell , and now found ourselves in kennington lane , having borne away through the side streets to the east of the oval .
always .
he muttered
as it is , he must know that he will be reported to the police by the hotel manager and that his disappearance will be connected with the murder .
as our road lay the same way i thought that i would overtake you and introduce myself .
his very person and appearance were such as to strike the attention of the most casual observer .
but at length some sense came back to their crazed minds , and the whole of them , thirteen in number , took horse and started in pursuit .
but if it was not he , it must have been alec cunningham himself , for by the time that the old man had descended several servants were upon the scene .
we then had an interview with mr cunningham and his son , who were able to point out the exact spot where the murderer had broken through the garden hedge in his flight .
thanks to this lonely cottage and his own discretion , godfrey has up to now succeeded .
the official police do n't need you , mr holmes , to tell them that the carpet must have been turned round .
not for several days .
the first battalion of the royal munsters which is the old th has been stationed at aldershot for some years .
the blundering fool ,
but i think that we shall succeed in establishing a connection , after all .
but anon their bemused wits awoke to the nature of the deed which was like to be done upon the moorlands .
sir eustace brackenstall , the driver tells me .
is susan , the maid , there ?
if the fellow did not want the hue and cry raised over him , one would imagine that he would have returned and remained at the hotel as an inoffensive tourist .
this man barker has certainly been down here a good deal .
but how about mr hosmer angel ?
and then you can judge if you will listen to the details from mr tregennis , or whether we should not hasten at once to the scene of this mysterious affair .
i fully share your opinion , and i trust , with you , that we may prove it ,
i will go up and see him at once , ' i said .
i know the military neatness which characterises you .
going out , watson ?
it was never quite out of his mind .
that he never leaves the valley ,
she was later than usual and wanted to get home .
not clear ?
now , enoch drebber , ' i continued , turning to him , and holding the light to my own face , ' who am
i live at hobson 's patch , and that 's here where we are drawing up .
let us weigh the one against the other .
then mr alec ran out and knelt beside the wounded man .
i saw the glint of a knife , and i lashed at him with the hammer .
mcmurdo disengaged her hands , kissed her , and gently pushed her back into a chair .
you have formed a conclusion ?
that 's the ring .
we had reached pall mall as we talked , and were walking down it from the st .
if there is any point which i have not made clear , pray question me about it .
it 's a bad job ,
brothers of the lodge smiled and waved .
i found that they had set up housekeeping together at this place on the line that she had to pass for the station .
beside him stood a smart looking police inspector , who was taking notes in a pocket book .
sherlock holmes
mind , i do n't say that there was anything unfair , but so it was .
i have been in the valley of fear .
one moment , lestrade ,
that was my singular interview with professor moriarty .
his native accent rattled like a stick upon railings .
i confess that they quite surpass my expectations , and that i am utterly unable to account for your result .
exactly , mr holmes , exactly .
i had never heard of the institution , and my face must have proclaimed as much , for sherlock holmes pulled out his watch .
with which parthian shot he walked away , leaving the two rivals open mouthed behind him .
he could buy ' em at so much a gross with a cash discount , and he did it before ever they signed on .
i had to choose between you , and in my weakness i turned away from my own little girl .
his eyes blazed for an instant , and then with an evident effort he got a grip upon his own emotions well , you are on the wrong track , that 's all .
holmes struck a match and held it to the back wheel , and i heard him chuckle as the light fell upon a patched dunlop tire .
never let yourself doubt upon that point .
his head was horribly injured , and the whole room bore witness to the savage ferocity of the blow which had struck him down .
at four yards , i could deceive you .
that the wedding ring was below the other ?
it is nearly half a mile , but there is no hurry .
i perceive three of the county constabulary in the drive , and i am glad to see that the little ostler is able to keep pace with them , so it is likely that neither he nor the interesting bridegroom will be permanently damaged by their morning 's adventures .
it was three in the morning .
as i did so i struck against an elderly , deformed man , who had been behind me , and i knocked down several books which he was carrying .
at that moment there arrived dr wood , a brisk and capable general practitioner from the village .
she opened her eyes again .
cried holmes , in a sharp tone , and the six dirty little scoundrels stood in a line like so many disreputable statuettes .
the sergeant kept turning it over in his big fingers .
it had been arranged , therefore , that in such a case his two subordinates were to make for some prearranged spot where they could escape investigation and be in a position afterwards to renew their attempt .
then he could not have retreated down the road , and you say that there are no side roads ?
i whispered
you will excuse me for a few minutes while i satisfy myself as to this floor .
for they can hardly take any steps until the good pawnbroker is safely in bed .
i confess that i still share my uncle 's perplexity .
and now there 's this affair of the letter to me at the hotel .
, of stepney .
yes , my dear watson , i have solved the mystery .
we have still time to take a train to hereford and see him to night ?
has only one male visitor , but a good deal of him .
i must thank you for it all .
yes , we quarreled , and he knocked me down .
who did i get the statues from ?
he was an elderly man , with a thin , projecting nose , a high , bald forehead , and a huge grizzled moustache .
holmes turned to the page indicated .
put into plain words , the matter is this ,
she continued ,
we were the old women to be so taken in .
his profile was half turned towards me , and his face seemed to be rigid with expectation as he stared out into the blackness of the moor .
this set of rooms is quite the oldest in the college , and it is not unusual for visitors to go over them .
and now the matter had begun to straighten itself out wonderfully .
he was dead within five minutes .
it was quite necessary for us to find some one to take his place , and we were fortunate in hearing of your powers .
a guttering candle was stuck in a crevice of the rocks which flanked it on each side so as to keep the wind from it and also to prevent it from being visible , save in the direction of baskerville hall .
he falls and she escapes , either with or without the object for which she has come .
the father interested me extremely .
from north , south , east , and west every man who had a shade of red in his hair had tramped into the city to answer the advertisement .
you see it marked here in the map .
' i must keep them , ' said he , ' for they are so technical that it is impossible in the time to make copies .
now it is essential essential , i say that i should thoroughly understand it .
that was surely the bell .
there was a sort of sulky defiance in her eyes , which only goes with guilty knowledge .
as holmes drew the curtain i was aware , from some little rigidity and alertness of his attitude , that he was prepared for an emergency .
anger , amazement , consternation , and indecision swept over it in turn .
as he threw the door open an old woman ran out in front of him and tried to bar his passage , but he thrust her back , and an instant afterwards we were all upon the stairs .
it is certainly a little untrustworthy ,
he opened a locket and showed us the full face of a very lovely woman .
surprise was expressed at the absence of the master of the establishment from the scene of the fire , and an inquiry followed , which showed that he had disappeared from the house .
at the same moment , in some effort of escape , i broke through that cloud of despair and had a glimpse of holmes 's face , white , rigid , and drawn with horror the very look which i had seen upon the features of the dead .
what did you find in his pockets ?
at last he outs into the passage , and he cries , ' is that man never goin'to come ?
for the love of heaven !
they told me it was to do with the freemen so i went to chicago and was made one .
henri fournaye only returned from a journey to london on tuesday last , and there is evidence to connect her with the crime at westminster .
we are very rich in orchids on the moor , though , of course , you are rather late to see the beauties of the place .
the river washes along the front of the old fort , and so protects it , but on the sides and behind there are many doors , and these had to be guarded , of course , in the old quarter as well as in that which was actually held by our troops .
up to this point the incident bore the appearance of an ordinary accident , but fresh indications seem to point to serious crime .
the only conceivable escape for him lay in silencing my tongue .
the thing was too evidently a blind .
one of their number , taller and older than the others , stood forward with an air of lounging superiority which was very funny in such a disreputable little scarecrow .
is it natural that he should stand for five or ten minutes , as dr mortimer , with more practical sense than i should have given him credit for , deduced from the cigar ash ?
but we have heard nothing of what has passed there .
this is not a footmark ,
who is he , then ?
you will eventually manage the great depot in paris , which will pour a flood of english crockery into the shops of a hundred and thirty four agents in france .
made all my money at the gold fields .
you do n't know sarah 's temper or you would wonder no more .
presumably he at once concealed his cycle among the laurels where it was found , and possibly lurked there himself , with his eye on the house , waiting for mr douglas to come out .
you stand in the way not merely of an individual , but of a mighty organization , the full extent of which you , with all your cleverness , have been unable to realize .
i nodded , and stood by the door .
he was not a popular man , being somewhat cold and forbidding in his manners , but he had , as far as i know , no active enemies .
she is even more affected than i .
when my term was over i set myself to get the diary and letters which , if sent to the russian government , would procure my friend 's release .
we were fortunate in finding that lord holdhurst was still in his chambers in downing street , and on holmes sending in his card we were instantly shown up .
then we can proceed to business .
now , here 's a note for a hundred pounds , and if you think that we can do business you may just slip it into your pocket as an advance upon your salary .
before the apologetic butler had delivered his message i had pushed past him and was in the room .
we are faddy people , you know faddy but kind hearted .
when i had finished he stood stock still and full of thought .
his complexion was of a dead pallor , which was more startling by contrast with a long , dwindling beard of vivid red , which flowed down over his white waistcoat with his watch chain gleaming through its fringe .
holmes ascended the stair first , and as he opened the door of our room he gave a start of surprise .
that 's better !
is it not bad enough that one of these people come courting my ettie , and that i dare not turn him down , but that i should have another for my boarder ?
you remember the hat beside the dead man ?
when he went to devonshire his plans were , i believe , exceedingly hazy , but that he meant mischief from the first is evident from the way in which he took his wife with him in the character of his sister .
the moment for which i had waited so long had at last come .
within an hour i learn that this danger has actually materialized and that the person is dead .
the rest i arranged myself during my visit to baker street this afternoon .
there is your hat , then , and there your bird ,
i have no doubt , sir , that we shall succeed in establishing ourselves in some business .
on the contrary , there is a good deal of evidence that the douglases were very attached to each other .
finding that holmes was too absorbed for conversation , i had tossed aside the barren paper , and leaning back in my chair , i fell into a brown study .
was it in this room that you gave your instructions as to the copying of the document ?
that seems the most reasonable theory ,
looking straight at me , and suspended , as it were , in the air , for all beneath was in shadow , there hung a face , the very face of our companion thaddeus .
is don murillo , once called the tiger of san pedro .
drebber himself was drunk half the time , but stangerson was not to be caught napping .
yes , that is so .
instead of opening the door ourselves , we allowed the girl to do so .
he shot him and escaped , as arranged .
there are windows in it , of course ?
no , that seems to be the finish .
are you well up in your jean paul ?
then suddenly he plunged forward , wrung my hand , and congratulated me warmly on my success .
well , take my advice .
yet he took this document very seriously , and his mind was prepared for just such an end as did eventually overtake him .
mrs carey has identified it as being her husband 's property .
and now a word as to my household , mr holmes , for i wish you to thoroughly understand the situation .
deserted you ?
there is nothing new under the sun .
he shrieked , and then , ' my god , my god , my sins have overtaken me !
what are you after , anyhow ?
you 've got an irish tongue in your head anyhow ,
yes , she chose the one chair in the room .
the house was separated from the street by a low wall and railing , the whole not more than five feet high .
i have almost every link in my hands , and all the proofs which i could possibly need , so there is little which you need tell me .
here , in a clearing upon the green slope of a hill , stood a long , low , stone house , approached by a curving drive running through the fields .
i 'll hold you against the world , ettie , right here where we are !
i threw open the window , reopening by my violence a small cut which i had inflicted upon myself in the bedroom that morning .
was he our malignant enemy , or was he by chance our guardian angel ?
is that certain ?
one or two very remarkable things .
the man who entered knew that the papers were there .
i am frightened !
the first day holmes had spent in cross indexing his huge book of references .
she may have touched at any wharf on either side of the stream between here and greenwich .
by the way , the prisoner has a small box in the right hand pocket of his coat which it would be as well to remove .
dr barnicot was due at his surgery at twelve o clock , and you can imagine his amazement when , on arriving there , he found that the window had been opened in the night and that the broken pieces of his second bust were strewn all over the room .
who is this ?
besides , the duke remembers having written .
in the centre stood the treasure chest , resting upon two rafters .
i am justly reproved for what i feel was an unjustifiable intrusion , and i promise you that i will not mention the matter again .
we know that a man stood in the road looking at the quarrel between the barclays the blinds were up and the room lighted .
i have some knowledge , however , of baritsu , or the japanese system of wrestling , which has more than once been very useful to me .
shall i ever forget the look which came over his face when the first warning pangs told him that the poison was in his system ?
my eyes met those of holmes , and he put his finger to his lips as we turned away from the window .
i 've had enough of it .
what is the matter ?
then i came to the conclusion that the bell was out of order .
follow your heart , acushla !
edith baxter was within thirty yards of the stables , when a man appeared out of the darkness and called to her to stop .
it filled the whole air , and yet it was impossible to say whence it came .
what was he , then ?
leaving your door just as day was breaking , you filled your pocket with some reddish gravel that was lying heaped beside your gate .
the man with the blue coat and the roll of paper is sir william baskerville , who was chairman of committees of the house of commons under pitt .
not at all .
whoever would have dreamed it ?
mcginty carefully closed the door , and then seated himself on one of them , biting thoughtfully on his cigar and surveying his companion with those disquieting eyes .
when he did not come i was surprised , and i naturally became alarmed for his safety when i heard cries upon the moor .
my dear fellow , you exaggerate .
you can save yourself a deal of trouble by dropping it right now .
she pulled a little handkerchief out of her muff and began to sob heavily into it .
no , sir , it is a chubb 's key .
does stand for ' charing cross hospital , ' what further inferences may we draw ?
but no sign of a handkerchief .
i know where your son is , and i know some , at least , of those who are holding him .
i am telling you every work of the business just exactly as it happened , whether it is in my favor or not .
give me back my life .
i understand that it was your daughter who required my presence here , and i am acting in her interests .
there is something distinctly novel about some of the features .
it was evident that a chisel or strong knife had been thrust in , and the lock forced back with it .
i consider that a man 's brain originally is like a little empty attic , and you have to stock it with such furniture as you choose .
they sat side by side upon our paper littered settee , and it was easy to see from their worn and anxious faces that it was business of the most pressing importance which had brought them .
then i rang the bell , and , as i hoped , the assistant answered it .
as to this terrible person of yours , where is he ?
oh , how simple it would all have been had i been here before they came like a herd of buffalo and wallowed all over it .
but not all as brave as you over it .
it is probable that he imagined his crime to be a bloodless one , and hoped that if the body were consumed it would hide all traces of the method of his death traces which , for some reason , must have pointed to him .
and your brother ?
the lady could not move her bed .
there is no one else , and no sound could alarm those who are in the farther wing .
he turned it over to expose the central page .
over the edge there peeped a clean cut , boyish face , which looked keenly about it , and then , with a hand on either side of the aperture , drew itself shoulder high and waist high , until one knee rested upon the edge .
we heard the door open , a few hurried words , and then quick steps upon the linoleum .
if this is bluff upon your part , mr holmes , you have chosen a bad man for your experiment .
as he entered his eyes fell upon the stick in holmes 's hand , and he ran towards it with an exclamation of joy .
then we had a look at this poor fellow 's mother .
repeated holmes , pensively .
he threw the bridle over the fence and strode up the pathway .
but you had your suspicions ?
well , he drew up his own death warrant at the same time ,
he was murdered in his house last night .
in my second interview with mr hilton cubitt he was able to give me two other short sentences and one message , which appeared since there was no flag to be a single word .
on the table were the four guttered and burned out candles , with the cards scattered over its surface .
my name ,
what then ?
it was easy to tell that they had been before the others , because in places their marks had been entirely obliterated by the others coming upon the top of them .
what should i know about that ?
how many constables have you ?
i had opened the morning paper and was immersed in a sensational crime which had occurred in london the night before , when my friend gave an exclamation , sprang to his feet , and laid his pipe down upon the mantelpiece .
you really think that your solution must be correct ?
a gentleman goes forth on a showery and miry day .
it was quarter to twelve when the alarm broke out .
yes , it would be as well .
you are sure this one was among them ?
we are coming now rather into the region of guesswork ,
ten to two .
that 's all right ,
a confidential servant ?
dr mortimer returns with me .
but , hullo , who 's the visitor ?
let me see the three strips .
the traces of the tragedy had been removed , but the furniture within the little room still stood as it had been on the night of the crime .
that 's true ,
in the left hand corner is a curious hieroglyphic like four crosses in a line with their arms touching .
i could not acknowledge the paternity to the world , but i gave him the best of educations , and since he came to manhood i have kept him near my person .
a stranger died by accident and it was nobody 's business to inquire .
lestrade thrust his brandy flask between the baronet 's teeth , and two frightened eyes were looking up at us .
i was certainly feeling very weary , so i obeyed his injunction .
i started from home before six , reached leatherhead at twenty past , and came in by the first train to waterloo .
does anyone else beside your friend know ?
and now there is only she to be described .
but there is a tone in my wife 's voice , mr holmes , and a look in her eyes which forbid doubt , and i am sure that it was indeed my own safety that was in her mind .
as a matter of fact , my mind is entirely made up upon the case , but still we may as well learn all that is to be learned .
the stick had been removed , but there also the marks were slight .
i am sure we are honoured by your presence and to show you all we know ,
i 'll search the house before i leave .
certainly the bullet had been discharged at very close quarters .
shall i run on and stop them ?
i stooped under the rude lintel , and there he sat upon a stone outside , his gray eyes dancing with amusement as they fell upon my astonished features .
they should not leave my bureau were it not that it is absolutely necessary to have them copied .
you examined the room , i presume , to see if the intruder had left any traces any cigar end or dropped glove or hairpin or other trifle ?
philippe de croy , whoever he may have been .
if you will n't tell us the bet is off , that is all .
but what do you think of it , mycroft ?
oh , there could be no question as to the superimposing of the footmarks .
there is that skunk morris .
holmes continued ,
quite an interesting study , that maiden ,
sherlock holmes sprang to his feet the moment that she was gone and rushed into his room .
this power is what i mean when i talk of reasoning backwards , or analytically .
yet in spite of all dangers and difficulties , the hearts of the fugitives were light within them , for every step increased the distance between them and the terrible despotism from which they were flying .
the game keeper adds that within a few minutes of his seeing mr mccarthy pass he had seen his son , mr james mccarthy , going the same way with a gun under his arm .
did you tell any one that you had this special task to perform ?
the man motioned me to a chair , and turned to resume his own .
he meant in the end to have the estate , and he was ready to use any tool or run any risk for that end .
interested , mr mac , but hardly surprised .
a man can tell easily enough when a woman loves him .
well , you see me .
the fellow is wary and cunning to the last degree .
but i would rather not talk about the creature , mr holmes , and , indeed , he has little to do with my story .
let the weight of the matter rest upon me now , and do not let your mind dwell upon it further .
i assure you i would n't hurt a fly of my own accord , but every man has his business , and what was i to do ?
hope , i congratulate you .
then a match was struck , and next instant the steady light from a candle filled the interior of the hut .
i 'll be back in a moment when i have changed my dressing gown and filled my cigar case .
this time his skill was greater or his tool was better , for there was a sudden snap and the creak of the hinges .
it is well they do n't have days of fog in the latin countries the countries of assassination .
it is conjectured that it was in one of these that she committed the terrible crime which has caused such a sensation in london .
how do you know ?
no word of writing was enclosed .
watson , i think you know mr jones , of scotland yard ?
there 's one thing ,
it was certainly , as you said , very surprising that he should have contracted an out of the way asiatic disease in the heart of london a disease , too , of which i had made such a very special study .
no , i confess that i see no connection .
take my word for it that they will n't be able to hold you .
i cannot as yet see any connection .
there is an exit through a summer house at the far end .
he walked on tiptoe under the shadow of the wall , and when he reached the window he worked a long bladed knife through the sash and pushed back the catch .
i have already given you my word .
you will , however , i am sure , excuse me for taking an obvious precaution .
holmes continued ,
it is clear that mrs toller knows more about this matter than anyone else .
it seemed hopeless to pursue the inquiry any farther , but it was clear that in spite of holmes 's ruse we had no proof that barrymore had not been in london all the time .
i am all impatience to be gone .
now , my dear hopkins , draw up and warm your toes ,
he cried .
he took the more chivalrous view , however , and preserved her secret .
dr watson !
if they are too many for us we shall take two or three of them with us ,
as he walked he glanced continually over either shoulder , like a man who is ill at ease .
there was a dead hush of expectation .
i only had three pairs in the world the new brown , the old black , and the patent leathers , which i am wearing .
i do not think that i have ever seen such deadly paleness in a woman 's face .
but you shall have it all just as it occurred .
we shall recompense you for the loss of your time .
the man in the stern still crouched upon the deck , and his arms were moving as though he were busy , while every now and then he would look up and measure with a glance the distance which still separated us .
in the meantime , watson , i should be glad if you would ring for an express messenger , for i have a letter to send and it is important that it should go at once .
forward !
when at last we reached the door and peeped through we found him crouching at the window , candle in hand , his white , intent face pressed against the pane , exactly as i had seen him two nights before .
leaving the limp and motionless body of the editor at the head of the stair , the criminals rushed down and made their way swiftly along the street .
a likely story !
i 'll tell you first how i came to be in his power .
he knows , if he knows anything , that he will have a deeficulty in making his escape , as the house is surrounded with water .
it seems to me , mister ,
the plans , which are exceedingly intricate , comprising some thirty separate patents , each essential to the working of the whole , are kept in an elaborate safe in a confidential office adjoining the arsenal , with burglar proof doors and windows .
yet , silent as he was , i knew perfectly well what it was over which he was brooding .
you are quick to make up your mind ,
i presume , sir ,
how to get drebber to that house was the difficult problem which i had now to solve .
i went to my bedroom and followed his advice .
if you give me away , may a curse be on you !
and , first of all , we must choose our positions .
i know that all is well with him .
i think i could lay my finger on it ,
where was the clue ?
he gets a'most too much for me to manage , ' specially when my man is away days at a time .
i am a poor man ,
the case , however , as i remember it , was a very simple one .
why , my son alec had not yet gone to bed , and he would certainly have heard any one moving about .
maybe in some places .
what is this ?
he had a great interest in the disappearance of the favorite .
if they come the other way , we can get through the door if our job is done , or hide behind these window curtains if it is not .
he gasped .
but these , of course , are afterthoughts .
here are twenty three shillings .
yes , sir , and it has proved most disappointing .
depend upon it , there is nothing so unnatural as the commonplace .
i drove to the butcher 's and back .
he is coming to .
the instant he entered i saw by his face that he had not been successful .
he looked inside the envelope .
what would you recommend ?
he was a man of untidy habits , very untidy and careless .
he was immensely tickled by his own adventures and laughed heartily as he recounted them .
i do n't know as i could say more than that .
you are well aware , dr huxtable , that his grace is particularly anxious to avoid all public scandal .
i am in hopes of getting it .
are you a married man , mr wilson ?
it is my analysis of the documents found in the coptic monasteries of syria and egypt , a work which will cut deep at the very foundation of revealed religion .
at the same instant an empty dog cart , the horse cantering , the reins trailing , appeared round the curve of the road and rattled swiftly towards us .
was he in favour of such a union ?
to eyford , in berkshire .
our quest does not appear to take us to very fashionable regions .
that is so .
we have had several warnings that an attempt might be made upon it .
he threw over a sheet of thick , pink tinted note paper which had been lying open upon the table .
there were allusions to some deeds possibly the more valuable which i could not find .
inside , however , there were large rooms furnished with an elegance in which i seemed to recognize the taste of the lady .
i had opened my mouth to reply to this tirade , when with a crisp knock our landlady entered , bearing a card upon the brass salver .
it is more probable that he had arranged his affairs before ever he set out upon his expedition .
my dear sir , if you did anything so foolish you would probably enlarge the two limited titles of our village inns by giving us ' the dangling prussian ' as a signpost .
i turned him over with my foot , and placed my hand upon his heart .
gregson sprang out of his chair and upset the remainder of his whiskey and water .
it might or might not bite the occupant , perhaps she might escape every night for a week , but sooner or later she must fall a victim .
the other half i will place in this wine glass , in which is a teaspoonful of water .
do you understand ?
let the high god judge between us .
look here , my man ,
you only want to get a glimpse of his face to see that .
he spoke in a slow staccato fashion , choosing his words with care , and gave the impression generally of a man of learning and letters who had had ill usage at the hands of fortune .
if an original were missing they would change the whole thing .
surely her own statement is clear and her anxiety very natural .
he was a sportsman , was godfrey , down to his marrow , and he would n't have stopped his training and let in his skipper if it were not for some cause that was too strong for him .
how could they get in ?
on the hatherley side of the pool the woods grew very thick , and there was a narrow belt of sodden grass twenty paces across between the edge of the trees and the reeds which lined the lake .
well , i thought it was possible .
the ancient cornish language had also arrested his attention , and he had , i remember , conceived the idea that it was akin to the chaldean , and had been largely derived from the phoenician traders in tin .
it was at eleven forty five that the first alarm reached the small local police station , in charge of sergeant wilson of the sussex constabulary .
she knows everything now , and i would have been a wiser man if i had told her sooner .
well , something was worrying him the night before , and if it was to do with money it is possible that he would make for his nearest relative , who had so much of it , though from all i have heard he would not have much chance of getting it .
he laughed at my bewildered expression .
i 'll have him out of my house before the day is done .
i 'll wager he found his way home all right .
a note was handed in after breakfast , which holmes passed across to me with a smile .
the landlord further informed me that there are usually week end visitors ' a warm lot , sir ' at the hall , and especially one gentleman with a red moustache , mr woodley by name , who was always there .
you have evidently seen more in these rooms than was visible to me .
it is a pity he did not write in pencil ,
it is possible that i may have to ask your company and assistance upon a small expedition which will have be undertaken to night , if my chain of reasoning should prove to be correct .
it is a little place near the borders of oxfordshire , and within seven miles of reading .
well , well , he will be here , i daresay , by the time i have looked through the times , and then we shall know all about it .
there is an opening between two trees which enables one from this point of view to look right down upon it , while from all the other windows it is only a distant glimpse which can be obtained .
it was a wax vesta half burned , which was so coated with mud that it looked at first like a little chip of wood .
yes , sir
i do not know , ' she answered , turning white to her very lips .
and i can quite understand that he might find it difficult to post a letter unobserved .
i trust that they do not mean that i have done anything to forfeit your confidence ?
they rapidly and rather clumsily met the situation .
and with that our conversation drifted off on to other topics .
that all my life i have been collecting other people 's news , and now that a real piece of news has come my own way i am so confused and bothered that i can n't put two words together .
holmes declares that he overheard me caution him against the great danger of taking more than two drops of castor oil , while i recommended strychnine in large doses as a sedative .
well , the fact is , ' he remarked , ' that when i recover from these attacks my mind is always very clouded as to all that has gone before .
he came expecting to find the door open .
a minute later we were all seated in a comfortable landau , and were rattling through the quaint old devonshire city .
i do n't deny that it is smartly written .
the hero of the long island cave mystery ?
wonderful !
your majesty had not spoken before i was aware that i was addressing wilhelm gottsreich sigismond von ormstein , grand duke of cassel felstein , and hereditary king of bohemia .
i shall have news of some sort or other before i get back .
on the contrary , i opened the door myself because i felt the room to be a little close .
there would be a noise like a pistol shot .
if you have reason to believe that it is inhabited , do not force your way in , but send a wire to my friend and me .
choose and eat .
it was necessary to make a home of my own .
if the law can do nothing we must take the risk ourselves .
public disgrace i might have faced , although i am a man whose character has never yet borne a stain .
not a doubt of that ,
if not , there 's no harm done .
you want to know what became of those geese ?
he got engaged to her when traveling last winter , and she came down to be introduced to his people , with her brother as escort .
both the yacht and he vanished utterly .
amateur sport is free from betting , but a good deal of outside betting goes on among the public , and it is possible that it might be worth someone 's while to get at a player as the ruffians of the turf get at a race horse .
well , mrs warren , i cannot see that you have any particular cause for uneasiness , nor do i understand why i , whose time is of some value , should interfere in the matter .
the butler had hardly closed the door behind him when lady hilda was down on her knees at holmes 's feet , her hands outstretched , her beautiful face upturned and wet with her tears .
in the first place , no reason could be given why the young man should have fastened the door upon the inside .
how often have i heard it in days gone by .
then you hand over to me three quarters of what you earn , and you keep the other quarter for yourself .
he has with him as travelling companion my foster brother dost akbar , who knows his secret .
taking the forms , he carried them over to the window and carefully examined that which was uppermost .
what would ye think of offering up prayer ?
in order to reach the billiard room i had to descend a flight of stairs and then to cross the head of a passage which led to the library and the gun room .
the address ,
what do you mean , mr holmes ?
was there any robbery ?
but why did you change your purpose ?
you are quite determined to do this , in spite of your wife 's warning that it is better that you should not solve the mystery ?
he was in the house about half an hour , and i could catch glimpses of him in the windows of the sitting room , pacing up and down , talking excitedly , and waving his arms of her i could see nothing .
no one but an acrobat or a sailor could have got up to that bell rope from the bracket , and no one but a sailor could have made the knots with which the cord was fastened to the chair .
i slowed down my machine , but he slowed down his .
disregarding my presence , she went straight to her uncle and passed her hand over his head with a sweet womanly caress .
very good , i shall wait .
see if you can read it , watson ,
good bye , my own darling good bye .
you will be none the worse ,
approach , and examine them !
sherlock holmes stopped in front of it with his head on one side and looked it all over , with his eyes shining brightly between puckered lids .
the paper seems to me to be of no practical importance .
let us be practical ,
i guess when i move out of the chair i can put a name to the man that 's coming after me .
fifty odd had various degrees of imprisonment .
you will bring toby back in the cab with you .
a dull and foggy day with a drizzle of rain .
her sad , appealing eyes travelled from one to the other of us with a curiously inquisitive expression .
would you mind coming over and speaking to mrs douglas for one instant ?
he fell dead at the end of the alley from heart disease and terror .
you , carruthers , give me that revolver .
then , after we had sat down for ten minutes or so , she rose hurriedly , muttered some words of apology , and left the room .
your cipher was not difficult , madam .
i will tell you exactly what to do , if you will do it .
sherlock holmes sat down and lit his pipe .
what do you want ?
we found three or four grooms and idlers standing in the drive inspecting a bicycle which had been drawn out from a clump of evergreens in which it had been concealed .
it looks as though all the moles in england had been let loose in it .
yet it is evidently a document of importance .
think carefully , mr tregennis , for any clue which can help me .
the exclusion from his clubs would mean ruin to moran , who lived by his ill gotten card gains .
you were thinking that if the portrait were framed it would just cover that bare space and correspond with gordon 's picture there .
there were no signs , however , of any ashes or scraps .
i may say in answer to your original question that i have not cleared my mind entirely on the subject of this case , but that i have every hope of reaching some conclusion .
at the same instant i saw him raise his hand and at the signal i tossed my rocket into the room with a cry of fire ! the word was no sooner out of my mouth than the whole crowd of spectators , well dressed and ill gentlemen , ostlers , and servant maids joined in a general shriek of fire ! thick clouds of smoke curled through the room and out at the open window .
your narrative promises to be a most interesting one .
stapleton would not let it go unless he had reason to think that sir henry would be there .
no , i do n't know them , and i do n't fear them , and i do n't believe in them !
i took it up between my finger and thumb .
his brows were drawn into two hard black lines , while his eyes shone out from beneath them with a steely glitter .
one is the bicycle with the palmer tire , and we see what that has led to .
he brightened and rubbed his thin hands together as he listened to the meagre but remarkable details .
i started at once in this harmless seaman 's rig and inquired at all the yards down the river .
our months of partnership had not been so uneventful as he had stated , for i find , on looking over my notes , that this period includes the case of the papers of ex president murillo , and also the shocking affair of the dutch steamship friesland , which so nearly cost us both our lives .
it ran thus :
suddenly mcginty stooped and produced a wicked looking revolver .
cried mcginty .
certainly .
i had awakened what he called ' love ' within him the love of a brute a savage .
he assured me that no harm could come to my husband .
reginald musgrave looked at me in astonishment .
morally , mr holmes .
there were some papers of importance in the cupboard , but there were no signs that this had been tampered with , and the professor assures me that nothing was missing .
they were carefully examined , and showed that he was a keen student of international politics , an indefatigable gossip , a remarkable linguist , and an untiring letter writer .
perhaps you would not be very gracious either , if , after all the trouble of wooing and wedding , you found yourself deprived in an instant of wife and of fortune .
very good .
there were thirty six ships of fair tonnage which were reported there during those months .
it was empty .
you seem to know as much about it as if you were there , sir the truth is that i hoped to find the room clear .
i shall certainly not write if you would rather i did n't .
how the deuce did he know that i had come from afghanistan ?
but i thought you said
yet from last night 's experience i can come to no other conclusion .
in recording from time to time some of the curious experiences and interesting recollections which i associate with my long and intimate friendship with mr sherlock holmes , i have continually been faced by difficulties caused by his own aversion to publicity .
they were reticent , however , as to the immediate job in hand .
yes , sir , she must have been a cool hand .
i had been told that if the king employed an agent it would certainly be you .
perhaps it was some mischievous idea of setting the police upon a wrong track , for i felt light hearted and cheerful .
some secretive lover , beyond all doubt .
god bless your sweet calm face !
i ask you now , is such a theory tenable ?
and how about father ?
his grace sat very stern and upright in his chair and looked stonily at my friend .
eight of his chief followers shared his fate .
when you raise your cry of fire , it will be taken up by quite a number of people .
open it !
the rest of our work must be done , and every moment is of importance .
heavily built and massive , there was a suggestion of uncouth physical inertia in the figure , but above this unwieldy frame there was perched a head so masterful in its brow , so alert in its steel gray , deep set eyes , so firm in its lips , and so subtle in its play of expression , that after the first glance one forgot the gross body and remembered only the dominant mind .
surely i can come with you , then ?
you have been in afghanistan , i perceive .
they had seen no signs of any pursuers , and jefferson hope began to think that they were fairly out of the reach of the terrible organization whose enmity they had incurred .
clair through the window , there is no human eye which could have seen the deed .
you then , as i understand , followed her home and saw through the window an altercation between her husband and her , in which she doubtless cast his conduct to you in his teeth .
for an instant i thought that it was an accident , but a moment later , looking up , i saw a man 's head against the darkening sky , and another stone struck the very ledge upon which i was stretched , within a foot of my head .
when i looked at him he had finished reading the note , and his eyes had assumed the vacant , lack lustre expression which showed mental abstraction .
i was a little startled at the nature of the child 's amusement , but the father 's laughter made me think that perhaps he was joking .
there was rain about that time , and his death had certainly been before the rain .
the greater page , hung together , and the writing could still be read , though it was gray on a black ground .
the puny plot of the story was so thin , however , when compared to the deep mystery through which we were groping , and i found my attention wander so continually from the action to the fact , that i at last flung it across the room and gave myself up entirely to a consideration of the events of the day .
upon what point ?
we should be laughed out of court if we came with such a story and such evidence .
i kept all the keys and could go where i liked and do what i liked , so long as i did not disturb him in his privacy .
well , sir , i thought no good could come of it .
repeated our visitor .
good lord !
it is well ,
you have made inquires into the history of my unhappy brother , and you now pretend to deduce this knowledge in some fanciful way .
a tall , sunburned , capable looking , clean shaved man looked in at us .
we have a journey , then ?
no , i did not .
you think it will come to that ?
pray do so .
i exclaimed devoutly .
it is a good seven miles from eyford station .
a pen , sir
au revoir , then .
that clay and chalk mixture which i see upon your toe caps is quite distinctive .
it may be a hit , or it may be a miss , but we are bound to do something for friend hopkins , just to justify this second visit ,
the ground is very hard , you see , and there are no marks to guide us .
the cabman scratched his head .
if we make one false move the villain may escape us yet .
how can you possibly tell ?
near the end of dinner a note was handed in by the servant .
the screams were repeated for the amusement of the lodge .
a small page admitted us , and we began at once to ascend the broad , well carpeted stair .
rather than i should marry another woman , there are no lengths to which she would not go none .
if you know nothing , you can testify nothing , and no trouble can come of it .
the what ?
wedlock suits you ,
i went to a doctor last week about it , and he told me that it is bound to burst before many days passed .
all day a stream of pennies , varied by silver , poured in upon me , and it was a very bad day in which i failed to take pounds .
as the number of large houses close to oxshott must be limited , i adopted the obvious method of sending to the agents mentioned by scott eccles and obtaining a list of them .
he denied strenuously having ever seen mr neville st .
oxford won by a goal and two tries .
at one o clock it began to rain , and i met harry murcher him who has the holland grove beat and we stood together at the corner of henrietta street a talkin ' .
if you want good men you should pay them a good price ,
the irish american had entered the study and stretched his long limbs from the armchair .
the conversation was amazingly indiscreet .
the old man had just finished his lunch , and certainly his empty dish bore evidence to the good appetite with which his housekeeper had credited him .
convinced that he had taken the wrong turn , he tried another , but with the same result .
at one corner , the corner nearest the room which we had left , there was a second door .
well , i did what she said , mr holmes , and i carried the bird all the way to kilburn .
the strangers took that which led to the crow hill , a huge business which was in strong hands which had been able , thanks to their energetic and fearless new england manager , josiah h .
for a minute or more the hand , with its writhing fingers , protruded out of the floor .
the maid carried a lantern with her , as it was very dark and the path ran across the open moor .
there is some evidence then , that this man who entered the house and killed its master was an american .
why , it 's thirty year and more since i saw you last .
then at last i heard from this man , lucas , that it had passed into his hands , and that he would lay it before my husband .
you dragged them from the serpentine ?
it was all done so swiftly and deftly that the fellow was helpless before he knew that he was attacked .
mr douglas must have shot himself .
his name is francis prosper .
to continue my statement , however : i relocked the bureau , using the key which brunton had left , and i had turned to go when i was surprised to find that the butler had returned , and was standing before me .
mr gregson , who had listened to this address with considerable impatience , could contain himself no longer .
what do you make of it all ?
why not here , as well as in a feather bed , twenty years hence ,
seeing that his passion was becoming ungovernable , i left him and returned towards hatherley farm .
yours are worn three inches deeper than his .
it has been getting worse for years .
mr mortimer tregennis naturally went with him .
and while the revellers stood aghast at the fury of the man , one more wicked or , it may be , more drunken than the rest , cried out that they should put the hounds upon her .
has anything else occurred to you ?
in an incoherent and , as i deeply feel , an entirely inadequate fashion , i have endeavored to give some account of my strange experiences in his company from the chance which first brought us together at the period of the study in scarlet , up to the time of his interference in the matter of the naval treaty an interference which had the unquestionable effect of preventing a serious international complication .
for an instant she sat up , her cheeks flushed , and her eyes blazing from under the terrible mark upon her brow .
he roamed about the house , and the women ran for it when they heard him coming .
rain squalls drifted across their russet face , and the heavy , slate coloured clouds hung low over the landscape , trailing in gray wreaths down the sides of the fantastic hills .
and i even attempted , more than once , for my own private satisfaction , to employ his methods in their solution , though with indifferent success .
the company broke up with shouts and yells and snatches of drunken song .
it was not , i must confess , a very alluring prospect .
she just sat in her dressing gown by her bedroom fire , with her head sunk in her hands .
there was no sign of it , however , and so it became evident that it had turned down one of several side roads which i had observed .
we cannot tell what correspondence may be there .
added miss morstan , with a bright glance at me .
the professor keeps it on his watch chain .
i will not be sure , but i believe that it was only half down .
in his singular character the dual nature alternately asserted itself , and his extreme exactness and astuteness represented , as i have often thought , the reaction against the poetic and contemplative mood which occasionally predominated in him .
i know a dog that would follow that scent to the world 's end .
which were very well justified ,
it became an overpowering , absorbing passion with me .
simon , tapping his fingers upon the table .
as the gleam of the street lamps flashed upon his austere features , i saw that his brows were drawn down in thought and his thin lips compressed .
clearly , only one could fit into the hole , and that one was brunton .
one thing comes back to my memory which may have a bearing upon the business that you two gentlemen are investigating .
that settles this exit .
no one could find his way into the grimpen mire tonight .
a few minutes later we had reached the lodge gates , a maze of fantastic tracery in wrought iron , with weather bitten pillars on either side , blotched with lichens , and surmounted by the boars ' heads of the baskervilles .
now for the facts .
then i picked up a magazine from the table and attempted to while away the time with it , while my companion munched silently at his toast .
why should the tramp burn the body ?
but what do you allow that we should do about it ?
well , there 's no need for me to dwell on that part of it .
all looked so peaceful and happy , the rustling trees and the broad silent stretch of grain land , that it was difficult to realize that the spirit of murder lurked through it all .
the butler is gone , said she .
is he not a beauty ?
he raised a glass with which he had been served to his lips and elevated his little finger as he drank it .
to the man of precisely scientific mind the work of monsieur bertillon must always appeal strongly .
but what in the name of all that is wonderful made the fellow leave it behind ?
i 'm not going to tell you much more of the case , doctor .
he soon became a favourite with the old farmer , who spoke eloquently of his virtues .
i have heard your reasons and regard them as unconvincing and inadequate .
he hardly knew what he was doing .
what a pretty box !
i have just left him .
the remainder of the sheet !
i saw the cab pull up .
he croaked .
the order of the english letters after e is by no means well marked , and any preponderance which may be shown in an average of a printed sheet may be reversed in a single short sentence .
may i ask , my lad ,
this lady is a musician .
already the doors had all been shut and the whistle blown , when
their opponents were scattered and powerless .
i know it .
i expect him back every minute .
let me see .
that is very clear .
he had a large blue envelope in his hand , and was evidently the bearer of a message .
yes , sir , i go off duty at eleven .
we are in a civilised land here , and we can n't have tomfoolery of this kind .
you will find that the clips are too wide for your nose , showing that the lady 's nose was very broad at the base .
that you will play for a higher stake to night than you have ever done yet , and that the play will be more exciting .
he shook his head at my definition .
well , you had best give me a night or two that i may see the house and make my plans .
i believe that you are the devil himself !
good bye , mycroft .
at first he would content himself by using his machinery in order to find their victim .
we were able to find out , by communicating with the gentleman who had answered the advertisement , that the unfortunate young lady came of a wealthy grecian family , and that she had been on a visit to some friends in england .
that 's rather a broad idea ,
you come at a crisis , watson ,
to remember it to docket it .
well , my dear fellow , we have already arrived at the conclusion that the message received by garcia at dinner was an appointment or an assignation .
holmes sat up at attention , his pipe halfway to his lips .
between you and me i expect to hear news from you before long .
what business is it of yours , then ?
the oil lamps had just been lit in the leading passenger car , a long , bare carriage in which some twenty or thirty people were seated .
i had been away on a distant plantation , and was riding slowly home in the evening , when my eye fell upon something all huddled together at the bottom of a steep nullah .
nothing would induce him to give his old uncle away .
because he so far forgot himself as to tell you a true piece of autobiography upon the occasion when he first met you , and i dare say he has many a time regretted it since .
your telegram was dispatched about one .
but let us have no outsiders , no police or officials .
but if i am to go , i must pack at once , for i have only half an hour .
on the one side seemed certain ruin , on the other , terrible as it seemed to take my husband 's paper , still in a matter of politics i could not understand the consequences , while in a matter of love and trust they were only too clear to me .
very strange , watson , eh ?
what have you been doing all this time , eh ?
you 're a fool not to have been down to the union house and registered your name the first morning after you came here !
the cab and the landau with their steaming horses were in front of the door when i arrived .
he rushed out into the road , but , although several passers by declared that they had noticed a man run out of the shop , he could neither see anyone nor could he find any means of identifying the rascal .
right ahead a dark blur upon the water showed where the aurora lay , and the swirl of white foam behind her spoke of the pace at which she was going .
i have been calling on mortimer , and he pointed you out to me from the window of his surgery as you passed .
now there are three papers still missing .
our old chambers had been left unchanged through the supervision of mycroft holmes and the immediate care of mrs hudson .
somewhere in the heart of the great grimpen mire , down in the foul slime of the huge morass which had sucked him in , this cold and cruel hearted man is forever buried .
i had seldom heard my friend speak with such intensity of feeling .
tell mary that i shall want a fire in my room to day , and send down to fordham , the horsham lawyer .
he tore it open , glanced his eyes over it , and crumpled it into his pocket .
the launch was not at any landing stage or wharf , nor had it returned .
as it drove by us i caught a glimpse through the closed window of a horribly contorted , grinning face glaring out at us .
no , sir not another word !
however , we will suppose that they are an extraordinarily astute couple , who deceive everyone upon this point , and conspire to murder the husband .
old turner lived for seven months after our interview , but he is now dead and there is every prospect that the son and daughter may come to live happily together in ignorance of the black cloud which rests upon their past .
i wonder what that fellow is looking for ?
to morrow is the examination .
to continue our reasoning : if these people did not go by the road , they must have traversed the country to the north of the house or to the south of the house .
but the facts , miss westbury ?
liberal as you are with your servants , one can hardly expect that they can buy twenty guinea walking dresses for their ladies .
he is known to have held papers which he used for blackmailing purposes .
i hope that you will come also .
let 's hear again how he squealed ,
one or two of them are so trivial ,
i stood gazing round and wondering where on earth i might be , when i saw some one coming towards me in the darkness .
by gar !
as he spoke he picked up the steel poker and , with a sudden effort , straightened it out again .
why , as to that , gentlemen , ' i answered , trying also to be cool , but feeling as excited as he did , ' there is only one bargain which a man in my position can make .
i flung the curtain aside and found myself face to face with a broad shouldered elderly man , who had just stepped into the room .
now , let me just run over the course of events , and you will contradict me if i go wrong .
the room into which we were shown was that in which the crime had been committed , but no trace of it now remained save an ugly , irregular stain upon the carpet .
the thick iron ferrule is worn down , so it is evident that he has done a great amount of walking with it .
holmes tore it open and burst out laughing .
this is all quite beside the question .
it would be a great pleasure to me , therefore , if you could come on to the continent with me .
i set myself to copy it , and you can imagine my astonishment when i found that , with some reservations , he had left all his property to me .
holmes raised his eyebrows .
and yet i repeat that the paper is gone .
your friend seems to be no fool ,
yes , here we are three days later .
we can n't command our love , but we can our actions .
certainly .
if you examine among those documents which he took with him into his retreat , i will lay you a wager that you find the seal with the thumb mark upon it .
it was a new experience to him , the silence and darkness of his widespread house , for his family and household had been a large one .
we cannot pick up the broken trail until we find either the aurora or mr mordecai smith .
a gentleman who desires to consult you upon a matter of the very deepest moment .
it 's to another woman ,
she knows it well , and she knew it well before she married me .
mr holmes !
you cannot say what it was ?
we were so cowed by the sight that i think we should have given the job up if it had not been for prendergast .
the writer claimed by a momentary expression , a twitch of a muscle or a glance of an eye , to fathom a man 's inmost thoughts .
i 'll say that for him .
these few indications may be of some assistance to you , coupled with the fact that there is a good deal of skin missing from the palm of his hand .
it is not upon this occasion the instrument of evil , but it will rather prove to be the key which will unlock our mystery .
the clouds are heavy .
for an instant he stood glaring .
it is three now .
very good , mr holmes .
he found that papers were kept in the cupboard , and he got an impression of the key .
dear me , this is very interesting .
you will first make a note , doctor , of the paper and the date .
i should like to have a quiet little glance into the details of this case .
i have told you everything , sir
he was thoughtful and worried .
at this moment athelney jones thrust his broad face and heavy shoulders into the tiny cabin .
well , then i 'll tell him that i 'm a freeman myself .
a little further up the road dawson himself was lying on his face , quite dead , with an empty revolver in his hand and four sepoys lying across each other in front of him .
we must come back to that .
will you be ready to morrow ?
of the origin of the hound of the baskervilles there have been many statements , yet as i come in a direct line from hugo baskerville , and as i had the story from my father , who also had it from his , i have set it down with all belief that it occurred even as is here set forth .
he cried with a fierce snarl , and before an alarm could be raised sprang down the stairs and was gone .
from dundee , ' i answered , glancing at the postmark .
if the case has had no other effect , it , at least , brings out in the most striking manner the efficiency of our detective police force , and will serve as a lesson to all foreigners that they will do wisely to settle their feuds at home , and not to carry them on to british soil .
i know where it is .
anything good ?
an accident , i presume ?
the obvious place to look was the talc shelf or smoke guard of the lamp .
it 's not a take it or miss it government concern .
it was to save myself from ruin .
ask no questions , and let these things settle themselves .
it is your wisest course ,
it was the strongest and most savage in their possession .
contralto hum !
as we reached it the fog was lifting , and a thin , watery sunshine was breaking through .
i am one of the eminent order of freemen .
you would not read that excellent local compilation which described the concealment of king charles .
he imagined that some secret society , some implacable organization , was on douglas 's track , which would never rest until it killed him .
he suddenly sprang up , and darting like lightning across the room he flung open the door .
all this , dr watson , has been brought upon your head by your expression as you surveyed the moor out of our window .
it 's a blessed mystery to me ,
round and round the room she danced , her hands clapping , her dark eyes gleaming with delighted wonder , and a thousand pretty italian exclamations pouring from her lips .
pull up , man !
it was evident that he was expecting someone .
probably because during her residence in liverpool she had some hand in bringing about the events which led to the tragedy .
it ran :
he sat now with his handcuffed hands upon his lap , and his head sunk upon his breast , while he looked with his keen , twinkling eyes at the box which had been the cause of his ill doings .
he came through the hole in the roof ,
scanlan had been given a sealed note to be left at the address of miss ettie shafter , a mission which he had accepted with a wink and a knowing smile .
and , above all , why did you not come at once ?
it is the duke 's desire that the carriage shall go at once to the fighting cock inn to bring lord saltire home .
there is , but he has other departments to look after as well .
we had hardly alighted at north walsham , and mentioned the name of our destination , when the station master hurried towards us .
i exclaimed .
this is impossible .
lestrade glanced at his note book .
mrs allen stayed with her most of the night .
von bork clutched at his own throat in despair .
the shadow does indeed seem to lie heavy on some of you .
let us get to the open window .
there is also one confidential manservant .
just you carry them down with you , watson .
she was pledged to me years ago .
come over here now !
he walked to the french window and threw it open .
he stood now gazing with great reverence at the famous detective .
it was a singular spot , and one peculiarly well suited to the grim humour of my patient .
then he closed the locket and handed it back to lord st .
my coffee had not yet come , and i wondered what the cause of the delay could be .
you see that we trust you , for your word , like ours , is not to be broken .
this man has been seen since the crime , for he was detected and pursued by constable walters on the same evening , when he had the audacity to revisit wisteria lodge .
my husband yes , my real name is signora victor durando was the san pedro minister in london .
you will find an extra tumbler upon the sideboard , and there are cigars in the box .
adventure xi .
you should never neglect a chance , however small it may seem .
then as the moon rose we climbed to the top of the rocks over which our poor friend had fallen , and from the summit we gazed out over the shadowy moor , half silver and half gloom .
holmes sat up in his chair in considerable excitement .
he was a middle sized man , coarsely clad as became his calling , with a coloured shirt protruding through the rent in his tattered coat .
but mcginty and his men were undisturbed by such reports .
with feverish haste we had turned the body over , and that dripping beard was pointing up to the cold , clear moon .
then i brought it round to mr harry pinner .
we all listened intently to the young man 's words .
maybe the two things go together .
but at least you cannot say the same of mine .
many times but what was a fine to me ?
i do n't think i could rest until i know more of this fantastic business .
i would take my goose now , and in it i would carry my stone to kilburn .
i have a professional commission for you , but absolute secrecy is quite essential absolute secrecy , you understand , and of course we may expect that more from a man who is alone than from one who lives in the bosom of his family .
that beast has not a white hair upon its body .
part of this venerable building dates back to the time of the first crusade , when hugo de capus built a fortalice in the centre of the estate , which had been granted to him by the red king .
this is the chance of my lifetime in that direction .
i am only a simple norfolk squire , but there is not a man in england who ranks his family honour more highly than i do .
i was , of course , familiar with the pictures of the famous statesman , but the man himself was very different from his representation .
with these words , jefferson hope leaned back in his chair and began the following remarkable statement .
you arouse my curiosity ,
holmes and i drew closer to the fire , while the young inspector slowly and point by point developed his singular narrative .
will you remember to give them that message ?
the light at the top was suddenly whisked out , and from the darkness came a reedy , quivering voice .
here are the missing links of the very simple chain : .
stapleton did for one , and sir charles for another .
he dogs the fellow , he sees him enter a house , he waits outside for him , and in the scuffle he receives his own death wound .
when you go to bed lock the door of this room on the outside and keep the key .
in heaven 's name , what for ?
it was my intention to have stopped there , and to have said nothing of that event which has created a void in my life which the lapse of two years has done little to fill .
do you say that no one can ever get level with this king devil ?
what do you say , watson ?
there is a second line of steamers which connect south australia with england , but we will draw the larger cover first .
but this is incredible , mr holmes !
i owe it to you .
we are coming to that .
exactly .
i came down to give you a word in season , and you 've had it .
you will n't think me an intruder , i am sure .
it 's more than the prime minister gets .
shall see what i can learn from mrs bernstone , and from the indian servant , who , mr thaddeus tell me , sleeps in the next garret .
then the old statesman shrugged his shoulders .
no one could have climbed up to the window without leaving traces .
but she will refuse .
why had he asked miss harrison to remain in the sick room all day ?
i thought that ' j .
my popularity would soon suffer if i were to carry out your orders to the letter .
by no means .
and then suddenly the whole business came to an end .
quite so .
by the way , dr mortimer , who is this barrymore , anyhow ?
holmes continued .
during our return journey , i could see by holmes 's face that he was much puzzled by something which he had observed .
peterson had rushed forward to protect the stranger from his assailants but the man , shocked at having broken the window , and seeing an official looking person in uniform rushing towards him , dropped his goose , took to his heels , and vanished amid the labyrinth of small streets which lie at the back of tottenham court road .
far away in the black distance there still glowed that one tiny point of yellow light .
it is a quarter past two ,
her bulky figure in a shawl and skirt might have been comic were it not for the intensity of feeling upon her face .
what you do in this world is a matter of no consequence ,
sherlock holmes left the house alone , and only returned after eleven .
halloa !
ah , miss , it is a pity you did n't let me know what you were planning , for i would have told you that your pains were wasted .
i could understand anyone saying that the words were from a newspaper but that you should name which , and add that it came from the leading article , is really one of the most remarkable things which i have ever known .
kneeling here before you i implore you to give it up !
they are both quick and energetic , but conventional shockingly so .
roared the angry voice .
for a day or two we were busily employed in unpacking and laying out our property to the best advantage .
he is such an inscrutable fellow that i never quite know what to make of him .
the maid had loved the butler , but had afterwards had cause to hate him .
colonel ross leaned back with his arms folded and his hat tilted over his eyes , while i listened with interest to the dialogue of the two detectives .
he pays me well to do my duty , and my duty i 'll do .
it cried .
ah , a hiding place that is better !
surely no man would work so hard or attain such precise information unless he had some definite end in view .
the same company , brother morris .
that is it on the dressing table .
mrs douglas 's face lit with a quick smile .
no difficulty in the world ,
it has been passed rapidly on to those who need it .
he then led the way inside , and went over the whole building from basement to attic .
he snarled .
an anomaly which often struck me in the character of my friend sherlock holmes was that , although in his methods of thought he was the neatest and most methodical of mankind , and although also he affected a certain quiet primness of dress , he was none the less in his personal habits one of the most untidy men that ever drove a fellow lodger to distraction .
i let them scramble down the sloping bank , splash through the mire , and climb half way up to the gate , before i challenged them .
i walked down to the station with them , and then wandered through the streets of the little town , finally returning to the hotel , where i lay upon the sofa and tried to interest myself in a yellow backed novel .
he sat with a pale , drawn face , his anxious gaze fixed upon holmes , and his thin hands clasped convulsively together .
and when will that be ?
let me hear her say so .
there are few people , however , who , if you told them a result , would be able to evolve from their own inner consciousness what the steps were which led up to that result .
well , i seem to have come into an inheritance with a vengeance ,
the marks were some twenty yards from the body and no one gave them a thought .
and none of your people had by chance been to see you ?
briarbrae , woking .
i do n't know much of british life yet , for i have spent nearly all my time in the states and in canada .
never better .
let him come at ten o'clock at night , and he shall see everything .
but why should one servant return ?
and so do i .
worn and exhausted , he leaned upon his rifle and shook his gaunt hand fiercely at the silent widespread city beneath him .
at the spot where we saw the last of the dunlop tire it might equally have led to holdernesse hall , the stately towers of which rose some miles to our left , or to a low , gray village which lay in front of us and marked the position of the chesterfield high road .
well , his death came in uncommon handy for you , or they would have had you for shoving the queer .
be it so ,
what am i to do , then ?
what a very attractive woman !
why had he been so careful not to inform the people at briarbrae that he intended to remain near them ?
she fled from america to avoid you , and she married an honourable gentleman in england .
indeed , he smoked very little , and yet he might have kept some tobacco for his friends .
many circumstances could be imagined under which he would pass london bridge .
he was very fat , but had apparently at some time been much fatter , so that the skin hung about his face in loose pouches , like the cheeks of a blood hound .
when i remembered that you had seen her at that window , and how she had fainted on seeing the coronet again , my conjecture became a certainty .
i cried .
the three of us can show a bold front to brother bartholomew .
that 's brunton 's muffler .
clair went into town rather earlier than usual , remarking before he started that he had two important commissions to perform , and that he would bring his little boy home a box of bricks .
he tore himself from her as he spoke , and , flinging himself upon his horse , galloped furiously away , never even looking round , as though afraid that his resolution might fail him if he took one glance at what he was leaving .
however , it seemed to me that i had done a fairly good morning 's work , and i walked back in high spirits to farnham .
i tell you that no living man has any right to it , unless it is three men who are in the andaman convict barracks and myself .
there he has lived for six years , and there he died just a week ago to day .
it struck cold to our hearts , and i stood gazing at holmes , and he at me , until the last echoes of it had died away into the silence from which it rose .
what my next step may be will depend entirely upon the nature of your own defence .
no tracks or marks ?
the plaster cast was not worth more than a few shillings , and the whole affair appeared to be too childish for any particular investigation .
the inspector shrugged his shoulders .
parliament had risen .
and since you draw so large a sum as a hundred a year , with what you earn into the bargain , you no doubt travel a little and indulge yourself in every way .
keep that ,
i am afraid i miss the point .
we passed along the outer bounds of the manor house park until we came to a place where there was a gap in the rails which fenced it .
he crept up behind me and sprang upon me just as i had finished the note .
i only meant , sir , that sir charles led a very retired life , and we were able to look after his wants .
inside , young mr willoughby smith was stretched upon the floor .
i guess those chaps would be glad to know ,
that must be our main hope , for the brother is , of course , a complete stranger .
i am one of the examiners .
unfortunately , the path was tiled at that point .
they appear to have avoided the society of the neighbouring english families and to have led retired lives , though both the mccarthys were fond of sport and were frequently seen at the race meetings of the neighbourhood .
i know how keen you are upon these things , and i would take it as a great favour if you would step down to appledore towers , and give us the benefit of your advice .
my wife is fond of a particular shade of electric blue and would like you to wear such a dress indoors in the morning .
exactly !
but the mulatto 's heart was with it , and he was driven back to it next day , when , on reconnoitering through the window , he found policeman walters in possession .
i had totally forgotten him .
for fifteen hundred miles one may trace this ghastly caravan route by these scattered remains of those who had fallen by the wayside .
why not ?
well , well , you may see for yourself .
we were some distance off , and this fog may have deadened them .
his wife and his children awaited him at home , but no father ever returned to tell them how he had fared at the hands of his secret judges .
we could see a tall old woman admit him , and sway with pleasure at the very sight of him .
hardly had we reached the dark shadows before the step of the policeman was heard in the fog above .
oh , did n't you know ?
as he sank to the level of this opening , the light of the street , no longer dimmed by the dusty glass , fell full upon his face .
so it was .
i am sure that it is the truth .
see here , captain crocker , we 'll do this in due form of law .
i tried last night to get at these logbooks , but was unable to open the door .
john mcmurdo ,
she came with an excellent character , however , and has always given me satisfaction .
several times during the last three years i have taken up my pen to write to you , but always i feared lest your affectionate regard for me should tempt you to some indiscretion which would betray my secret .
the police ?
in that sorry house it looked as out of place as a diamond of the first water in a setting of brass .
we have now to deal with the other .
you are mad , mr holmes you are mad !
i persisted .
put it down !
i trust that he is kind to her .
he spoke lightly , but it was evident that he was very much in earnest .
holmes !
the truth is that the gentleman told me that he was a detective and that i was to say nothing about him to anyone .
no woman would ever send a reply paid telegram .
there were ten thousand rebels round us , and they were as keen as a set of terriers round a rat cage .
mr carruthers came in and tore him from me , on which he turned upon his own host , knocking him down and cutting his face open .
well , well !
and a mighty queer yarn you 'll find it .
it would not be very loud , and yet in the silence of the night it should have easily penetrated to mrs allen 's room .
my evidence showed that the door had been fastened upon the inner side , and the windows were blocked by old fashioned shutters with broad iron bars , which were secured every night .
what do you mean ?
once or twice in my career i feel that i have done more real harm by my discovery of the criminal than ever he had done by his crime .
but here
he had been with me for two years , and came with the best references , but he was a silent , morose man , not very popular either with masters or boys .
man , this is getting past a joke !
i really think that you will be more comfortable outside than in .
he was at the house of admiral sinclair at barclay square during the whole of the evening when this incident occurred .
the first page on the floor , the second in the window , the third where you left it ,
as he held the waxen print close to the blood stain , it did not take a magnifying glass to see that the two were undoubtedly from the same thumb .
he rose from his chair and paced about the room in uncontrollable excitement .
quite so .
i have not come to stay ,
that only two glasses were used , and that the dregs of both were poured into a third glass , so as to give the false impression that three people had been here .
you surprise me .
just write a couple of messages for me : ' sumner , shipping agent , ratcliff highway .
perhaps i shall get the credit also at some distant day , when i permit my zealous historian to lay out his foolscap once more eh , watson ?
that would be obviously impossible .
some of us found our way to the gallows , and some to siberia .
oh , he mentioned his name , did he ?
i 've heard of you , mr holmes .
there are one or two very singular points about this room .
what did the police think of the noise which awoke you from your sleep ?
tut , tut , mr mac !
you have got your men ?
the most lay silent , but some muttered to themselves , and others talked together in a strange , low , monotonous voice , their conversation coming in gushes , and then suddenly tailing off into silence , each mumbling out his own thoughts and paying little heed to the words of his neighbour .
he would rather have our small price than your big one ,
from the passage .
what could he have done single handed against a man in the prime of life ?
apoplexy .
well , that 's how milverton impresses me .
all night their course lay through intricate defiles and over irregular and rock strewn paths .
you can understand that this register and diary may implicate some of the first men in the south , and that there may be many who will not sleep easy at night until it is recovered .
i saw holmes 's eye darting to right and left among the litter of iron and wood which was scattered about the floor .
' p , ' of course , stands for ' papier .
mrs barrymore is of interest to me .
the secretary chuckled .
where in the world have you been , effie ?
and he is admirably suited for it , ' the other answered .
yelled holmes , in a paroxysm of excitement .
and this was the singular case of the grecian interpreter , the explanation of which is still involved in some mystery .
then i walked down to my cab and found that there was nobody about , and that the night was still very wild .
how is that , mr holmes ?
he seemed quite enthusiastic and rubbed his hands together in the most genial fashion .
like all holmes 's reasoning the thing seemed simplicity itself when it was once explained .
capital article this on free trade .
here and there also there is an irritation .
most of his time he would spend in his room , with the door locked upon the inside , but sometimes he would emerge in a sort of drunken frenzy and would burst out of the house and tear about the garden with a revolver in his hand , screaming out that he was afraid of no man , and that he was not to be cooped up , like a sheep in a pen , by man or devil .
your place should be at baskerville hall .
you will spend the night here ?
clair , which lay uncovered as the tide receded .
to us there is no fiend in hell like juan murillo , and no peace in life while his victims still cry for vengeance .
he was too good and kind to leave me so .
i 'll let you know , and mr melas also .
then your eyes fixed themselves upon your newly framed picture of general gordon , and i saw by the alteration in your face that a train of thought had been started .
he is well up in his work , though his greek is his weak subject .
the tragedy of pondicherry lodge
, and a landed proprietor .
in a tingle of fear i was already running down the village street , and making for the path which i had so lately descended .
you may pick it out .
yes , there is a late train quarter past eleven .
mcmurdo .
however , both of them were under his influence , and he had nothing to fear from them .
lord lieutenant of hallamshire since .
now , i knew that it was not you who had brought it down , so there only remained your niece and the maids .
if you will be good enough to call to morrow afternoon at three o'clock i should like to chat this little matter over with you .
i was so sure of it that for years i have been terrified if ever he came home later than was expected .
seven hundred and forty thousand pounds .
in the first place , i may tell you that moriarty rules with a rod of iron over his people .
but my own views are different .
thank you .
it was on my first arrival .
no local job has ever been too much for white mason .
a half moon broke through the rifts of racing clouds .
the older man is showing documents which are of evident value .
no , there is nothing .
so far i could hardly have gone astray .
i will do my best .
it was a long day .
holmes pulled it off and examined it critically .
framework is solid .
i observed that as he stepped out he gave a most searching glance to right and left , and at every subsequent street corner he took the utmost pains to assure that he was not followed .
why do you think so ?
obviously at the moment when dr mortimer withdrew from the service of the hospital in order to start a practice for himself .
i have had a wire from him this morning , by which i understand that he has got some clue to this sholto business .
their reasons for their conduct .
you acknowledge now that you wrote it ?
i soon found out which was the window of his bedroom , and early next morning i took advantage of some ladders which were lying in the lane behind the hotel , and so made my way into his room in the grey of the dawn .
he rummaged amid his newspapers , glancing over the dates , until at last he smoothed one out , doubled it over , and read the following paragraph :
on my enquiry as to whether a mr stangerson was living there , they at once answered me in the affirmative .
yet you must admit that the footmark is material .
two or three times i have heard his steps in the passage , coming and going , just about the hour you name .
or is she merely a prisoner ?
you can , for example , never foretell what any one man will do , but you can say with precision what an average number will be up to .
about the same .
now examine the thorn .
john clay , the murderer , thief , smasher , and forger .
he repeated that the matter was of the utmost importance , and added that no steps would be taken about my future by which he means , of course , my dismissal until my health was restored and i had an opportunity of repairing my misfortune .
we after the convict , and a hell hound , as likely as not , after us .
his eyes shone with a fierce excitement behind his spectacles .
yes , sir , it was the top one .
shouted another .
priory road .
you can lie as you like , holmes .
again i gripped him by the sleeve , and felt the thin , sinewy arm beneath it .
no , i forbid you .
he put his hand to his breast ,
or get letters from it ?
they shut at twelve on saturdays .
then you passed out and closed the window , standing on the lawn outside smoking a cigar and watching what occurred .
i inquired , taking up a pencil .
when any of that party talk about ' he ' you know whom they mean .
to my surprise , she took it very seriously , and begged me if any more came to let her see them .
a large face , seared with a thousand wrinkles , burned yellow with the sun , and marked with every evil passion , was turned from one to the other of us , while his deep set , bile shot eyes , and his high , thin , fleshless nose , gave him somewhat the resemblance to a fierce old bird of prey .
overton .
his forgetfulness about the key would have mattered little upon any other occasion , but on this one day it has produced the most deplorable consequences .
what savage creature was it which might steal upon us out of the darkness ?
could i fancy that your astute judgment would pass a dying man who , however weak , had no rise of pulse or temperature ?
it seems to me , stamford ,
whatever else you have to say , you must say in court .
i confess that this notebook , which did not appear at the inquest , modifies any views which i may have formed .
no excuse will avail , neither sickness nor business nor anything else .
this is indeed an unexpected development ,
maybe you think if i was voted down from bodymaster you would find yourself in my shoes .
we were passing him when he raised his face to look at us in the circle of light thrown by the lamp , and as he did so he stopped and screamed out in a dreadful voice ,
jones yelled to them to stop .
no , indeed .
and the queer thing about it is that the real owner is outlawed and cannot hold property , so that it belongs to the first comer .
those staring eyes and gnashing teeth flashed past us like a dreadful vision .
and what did you see ?
this is surely very unnecessary .
he had evidently heard some suspicious sounds , and he came prepared for such a scene as he found .
i have jotted down the form here , if you would not mind signing it .
let me advise you to gain at least the small credit for repentance and confession , since there are still some details which we can only learn from your lips .
i then set to work calling upon all the hotels and lodging houses in the vicinity of euston .
i knew all about this hiding place , so did ames but it never entered his head to connect it with the matter .
here you are in your house , and me still picking my salt meat out of the harness cask .
there is something of sir henry about the jaw .
it is possible that i am utterly mistaken .
that is also quite modern ,
it was this horrible scandal ,
nothing of any importance .
then fourteen miles away the great convict prison of princetown .
if he 'd been away in the barge i 'd ha ' thought nothin ' for many a time a job has taken him as far as gravesend , and then if there was much doin'there he might ha ' stayed over .
i gave her a check , and i never thought any more of the matter .
have you good authority for what you say ?
no , i saw nothing .
printing is a clumsy process .
life is infinitely stranger than anything which the mind of man could invent .
no , thank you , i had some supper at waterloo , but i 'll smoke a pipe with you with pleasure .
at eight in the morning , he came into my room just as i finished my toilet .
to an english lawyer named norton .
on the contrary ,
i appreciate their importance .
well , perhaps i do n't .
yes , sir
white mason chuckled and rubbed his fat hands together in his professional satisfaction .
she has been with her all her life ,
i have only been here two years .
i suppose that you have no objection to helping me ?
my suspicions were all confirmed by his peculiar action in typewriting his signature , which , of course , inferred that his handwriting was so familiar to her that she would recognise even the smallest sample of it .
ha , you see it now .
and i hope , also ,
i have been three times in his rooms , twice waiting for him under different pretexts and leaving before he came .
his life was irregular , but in one respect he was regularity itself .
a lady whose vision has been so extremely contracted all her life is sure to have the physical characteristics of such vision , which are seen in the forehead , the eyelids , and the shoulders .
men who had only known the quiet thinker and logician of baker street would have failed to recognise him .
however , such as they are you can put them in your watchpocket .
it is easy to see that he is of a sociable and possibly simple disposition , anxious to be friendly to all men .
pray continue .
holmes edged his way round the wall and flinging the shutters together , he bolted them securely .
one is to a firm in the city , the other is to the young lady 's stepfather , mr windibank , asking him whether he could meet us here at six o'clock tomorrow evening .
so saying i raised my hat and went upon my way , leaving them still seated behind that concealing hedge .
since we have been so unfortunate as to miss him and have no notion of his errand , this accidental souvenir becomes of importance .
about ten .
i hoped you might have something .
creeping in its shadow i reached a point whence i could look straight through the uncurtained window .
twice she has been waylaid .
what do you mean by ' appears ' ?
you may imagine , mr holmes , that to me , destitute as i was , such an offer seemed almost too good to be true .
the facts of the case are simple .
well , i cannot blame you for standing by your own wife .
the professor , ' he murmured ' it was she .
mrs forrester , too , was full of curiosity .
since it is morally justifiable , i have only to consider the question of personal risk .
the lawn is thirty yards across , and is only divided from the highway by a low wall with an iron rail above it .
but we could do with some lads like you .
i cried with clenched hands .
he is the best of the professionals , i think , and we may need his assistance .
have you had fresh news , then ?
your absence , mr phelps , will in some ways rather assist me .
there is no precaution which you have neglected .
it was a lonely house , twenty miles from here , over the range yonder .
we will suppose that there was a guilty secret , a really shameful secret in the life of this man douglas .
is it really you ?
then , as to sitting here or there , or amusing yourself in any manner indicated , that need cause you no inconvenience .
there is only one possible way .
besides , the editions of holy writ are so numerous that he could hardly suppose that two copies would have the same pagination .
i gave a cry of surprise , threw up my arms to cover my face , and , rushing to my confidant , the lascar , entreated him to prevent anyone from coming up to me .
i put the question , with a hint that it was my companion 's modesty which made him acknowledge his brother as his superior .
i think i did .
i should n't be surprised if it were the same .
the door we will leave ajar .
i do n't know much about the tariff and things of that kind ,
pancras hotel .
yes , i sent wires from woking station to every evening paper in london .
well , small , what is it ?
supposing that anything happened to our young friend here you will forgive the unpleasant hypothesis !
sold to mr windigate of the alpha , at s .
shafter had relented to the extent of letting mcmurdo come to his meals there when he liked so that his intercourse with ettie was by no means broken .
oh , certainly , if it would give you any pleasure .
but what can he do ?
as to the pistol , you 'll find it waiting for you , or i 'm mistaken .
pray do , sir , if it may help to clear this horrible affair up .
the gentleman i describe .
where does that door lead to ?
but the thing becomes more unintelligible than ever .
the last six months that she was here she would speak of nothing but his drinking and his ways .
well , after this fiasco i went into the bedroom and examined that also .
by the way , what was it you put into the wood pile besides your old trousers ?
he drew a small piece of cardboard from his pocket .
cried miss cushing impatiently .
putting his hands into his pockets , he stretched out his legs in front of the fire and laughed heartily for some minutes .
the first positive sign which he gave me of the direction which his investigation was taking was an extraordinary one .
his bed had also been slept in , but he had apparently gone away partly dressed , since his shirt and socks were lying on the floor .
i recognized him at once as stanley hopkins , a young police inspector , for whose future holmes had high hopes , while he in turn professed the admiration and respect of a pupil for the scientific methods of the famous amateur .
perhaps i had best say a few words first ,
we can send for you if we want you .
she kept coming back to it that this was a place of danger , and that she would never be happy until i had left it .
that can only mean that the rider is throwing his weight on to the handle bar , as a man does when he is sprinting .
that frightful cry turned the blood to ice in my veins .
and now if we pass on to the second point we find that each throws light upon the other .
the small boy brought round a small thin volume and a great greasy backed one , laying them out together beneath the hanging lamp .
at two o'clock yesterday afternoon a small packet , wrapped in brown paper , was handed in by the postman .
by the way , mister , talking of jack james , it seems to me you do n't do much to cover your men .
yes , sir
welcome , sir henry !
he was again in the grip of his mysterious malady .
paul 's .
in the town streets and squares sprang up , as if by magic .
to that extent .
it can n't be a coincidence ,
and that !
i therefore organized my street arab detective corps , and sent them systematically to every cab proprietor in london until they ferreted out the man that i wanted .
if you and your friend will sit down , i will tell you all i can .
well , really , it can hardly be described as otherwise ,
and let me have a clear account of who you are and what it is that has befallen you .
evidently the rascal had copied the paper in a great hurry , had broken his pencil , and had been compelled to put a fresh point to it .
they meet , they write , there is a complete understanding between them .
there is the death of this schoolmaster to be accounted for .
pray compose yourself , sir ,
house surgeon , from to , at charing cross hospital .
well , i have set my mind on many things in this life , and never one which i did not carry out .
he murmured , pointing to a glimmer among the trees .
but he must have some strong reason for sending miss cushing this packet .
is there any other point which i can make clear ?
he was very likely afraid to go back to the room .
direct the envelope to the address given .
i must discuss it while i eat , for i have not much time .
holmes had gone to the window and was examining with his lens the blood mark on the sill .
oh , gennaro , how wonderful you are !
all would now have been well for them had it not been for my knowledge of what they had done .
colonel ross 's silver blaze .
i confess , my dear watson , that that does not appeal to me as a very probable explanation .
but so long as i am the chief i 'll have no man lift his voice against me or my rulings .
then they are of no use .
his heart was weak , it appears , and he needed constant medical supervision .
when we married , my wife made over all her property to me rather against my will , for i saw how awkward it would be if my business affairs went wrong .
he took no particular notice of him , beyond thinking in his own mind that it was early for him to be at work .
you as good as admitted just now that you had done it .
young stamford looked rather strangely at me over his wine glass .
her sottish husband , who had married her principally for the sake of john ferrier 's property , did not affect any great grief at his bereavement but his other wives mourned over her , and sat up with her the night before the burial , as is the mormon custom .
there was no reason to suppose that he was going under an assumed name .
lestrade laughed loudly .
then i am your man .
a singular case ,
but she was as close as wax .
the account of mrs allen , the housekeeper , was , so far as it went , a corroboration of that of her fellow servant .
i ejaculated .
do you know , watson ,
not the slightest .
but still , we are aware , my friend , that love gages may take strange shapes .
to this day she declares that i told her one moving anecdote as to how a musket looked into my tent at the dead of night , and how i fired a double barrelled tiger cub at it .
then , to my surprise , there came a long silence , broken only by the heavy breathings and gaspings of the sick man .
no , it 's this poisonous atmosphere .
he wished to improve that which was already perfect to draw the rope tighter yet round the neck of his unfortunate victim and so he ruined all .
you 've done it now , watson ,
well , if there is nothing to be learned here , we had best go inside .
halloa !
i was chosen for a job .
they had been aroused from their sleep by the sound of an explosion , which had been followed a minute later by a second one .
something like a sneer quivered over the gaunt features of the old professor .
there are two moorland farmers .
for years brenda waited .
good god !
profound .
about three days .
well , mr holmes , that was the state of affairs when i first saw you two days ago .
but the young maiden , being discreet and of good repute , would ever avoid him , for she feared his evil name .
we both put our eyes to the grating .
the lady lay back exhausted upon a couch , but her quick , observant gaze , as we entered the room , and the alert expression of her beautiful features , showed that neither her wits nor her courage had been shaken by her terrible experience .
we 'd enough to do without lookin ' after him ,
whip your horse up , cabby , for we have only just time to catch our train .
a criminal who was capable of such a thought is a man whom i should be proud to do business with .
by all means go to holland , and you can get a boat from rotterdam to new york .
i did n't know it .
if it is a purely arbitrary one , it may be impossible for us to solve it .
he was trembling in every limb .
the youth pondered for a moment .
i get so little active exercise that it is always a treat ,
drive on , coachman !
how could he have permitted sir henry to fall in love with her ?
this took my breath away .
a number of small shops have come into being to meet the wants of the increased population so there seems some prospect that birlstone may soon grow from an ancient village into a modern town .
i feared that you would find it beyond you .
you will admit , mr holmes , that there is a possibility that these initials are those of the second person who was present in other words , of the murderer .
yes , i think we must run down to cambridge together .
i could hardly imagine a more damning case ,
he winds it at night , and he leaves these traces of his unsteady hand .
these woods are locally supposed to be the extreme fringe of the great weald forest , which thins away until it reaches the northern chalk downs .
i 'd only ask you not to worry mrs douglas over this matter for she has enough upon her just now .
having once decided to speak , i will tell you all without omitting any particular .
the soles which you are at this moment presenting to me are slightly scorched .
it was captain marvin , once of chicago , and now of the mine constabulary .
they would suffice to break off the match .
i determined that the fate which he had given to others should be shared by himself .
my ancestor , sir ralph musgrave , was a prominent cavalier and the right hand man of charles the second in his wanderings ,
but the thing is quite natural .
then how in the name of all that is wonderful did you get these facts ?
i pray that we may never be exposed to such a temptation .
without a glance or a word to the cowering women , he walked up to the white silent figure which had once contained the pure soul of lucy ferrier .
it was from her that i had your address .
you put it very clearly ,
very smart of you to notice it , but rather uncharitable to suggest that it was cause and effect .
but do n't you dare to breathe the name of jack mcginty in connection with it , stranger for every whisper goes back to him , and he is not one that is likely to let it pass .
sherlock holmes leaned back in his chair and laughed heartily .
he will not even go out of his way to verify his own solutions , and would rather be considered wrong than take the trouble to prove himself right .
is it not pitiful ?
that is bartholomew 's window up there where the moonshine strikes .
then when you tapped at the window i thought it had come again .
this letter interested me deeply , because the chief difficulty in the study of catalepsy is the rareness of the disease .
when his companion and he had fled to some prearranged retreat already occupied , no doubt by a confederate the companion had persuaded him to leave so compromising an article of furniture .
i know all about mccarthy .
the duke is here ,
they are suspicious folk in the east , however : so what does this rajah do but take a second even more trusty servant and set him to play the spy upon the first ?
but if you keep company with a disloyal man , we might think that you were disloyal , too .
so far so good .
the two sat down together in the bow window of the club .
widow macnamara 's is a lonely house .
he pushed past the servant and rushed into the drawing room , followed by the king and myself .
we had hardly reached the hall when we heard the baying of a hound , and then a scream of agony , with a horrible worrying sound which it was dreadful to listen to .
that gives a radius of ten or twelve miles , and he does it once , or sometimes twice , a day .
the scent suggested the presence of a lady , and already my thoughts began to turn towards the stapletons .
it is all dark to me .
were dug up in the moat of holdernesse hall .
you may safely trust him , for he appears to be too limp to get into any mischief .
hullo !
no , miss ,
exactly , mr holmes .
she 's my wife .
but if you have no confidence in me i would not intrude my services .
there were none returning .
and his daughter what was to become of her after he was gone ?
who brought the note , then ?
there can be no question that the latter as a reply to an appeal is far the most probable , and the circumstances pointed to its being a reply written by the lady .
here it is ,
he will be home , sir , at a quarter to one .
but without your telling me anything definite , mr holmes , you may do a great service if you would enlighten me on one point .
with all these qualities , why are you not in practice ?
and then , seeing that there were two of us , she gave a cry of hope which sank into a groan as she saw that my companion shook his head and shrugged his shoulders .
not more than a mile or two off .
i do not know at what hour he came in , but when i came down to breakfast in the morning there he was with a cup of coffee in one hand and the paper in the other , as fresh and trim as possible .
it 's a queer cipher that you handle by the yard every day and can get no meaning from .
you remember that terrible murderer , bert stevens , who wanted us to get him off in ' ?
but why ?
i should like to see mrs king , the cook , again .
good morning , watson .
as he passed your window he saw , by means of his great height , these proofs upon your table , and conjectured what they were .
bad business !
well , as soon as you conveniently can .
from under this great panoply she peeped up in a nervous , hesitating fashion at our windows , while her body oscillated backward and forward , and her fingers fidgeted with her glove buttons .
you do n't !
up above us was the lighted window .
you know , too , what a black reaction comes upon you .
consider !
we have our own ways and methods , different from chicago .
for this reason the affection and respect of the scotchman for his amateur colleague were profound , and he showed them by the frankness with which he consulted holmes in every difficulty .
quite so , you have got an admirable theory .
you can see for yourself that anyone going out through that open window could reach the front doorstep by taking a long stride .
it was after five o'clock when sherlock holmes left me , but i had no time to be lonely , for within an hour there arrived a confectioner 's man with a very large flat box .
yes , i have a turn both for observation and for deduction .
i hope he 's not going to be ill , sir i ventured to say something to him about cooling medicine , but he turned on me , sir , with such a look that i do n't know how ever i got out of the room .
the sailor flushed with anger .
i sprang forward therefore , and sir henry did the same .
the mere sight of his excellent appetite was an assurance of success for i had very clear recollections of days and nights without a thought of food , when his baffled mind had chafed before some problem while his thin , eager features became more attenuated with the asceticism of complete mental concentration .
under the latter heading is included , no doubt , not only those who may have taken him away , but also those who conspire to keep him in his present position ?
i should be better able to advise you .
and the warning it must have come from her !
i nearly fainted , sir
none at all ,
holmes was pacing up and down one side of the room whilst the old professor was talking .
it is only two years since he took up his residence at baskerville hall , and it is common talk how large were those schemes of reconstruction and improvement which have been interrupted by his death .
there 's a greenhouse which opens into the drawing room .
but she could not love him .
it looks like it ,
you saw the woman 's face at the sign of danger .
holmes !
finally he returned them to the box once more and sat for a while in deep meditation .
now you clearly see the sequence of events , though you see them , of course , in the inverse order to the way in which they presented themselves to me .
that is well !
he cried , dropping into his chair
but they do fall down , and when did you ever pick them up ?
from this wood the cycle must have emerged .
for a moment i was left alone in the room , and i sprang to my feet with some vague idea that i might in some way get a clue to what this house was in which i found myself .
you are surely joking , mr sherlock holmes .
oh , you may carry that feeling away with you .
in our code everything likely to come up is named after some spare part .
pooh , pooh !
i 've read of some folk of that name .
then i walked to the other end , which was a hundred yards or more down the lane .
precisely .
he sat forward , his hands clasped and his forearms on his knees , with an answering smile upon his bold , handsome face .
then of course i saw exactly what it all meant .
long lines of dull brick houses were only relieved by the coarse glare and tawdry brilliancy of public houses at the corner .
entirely .
i advertised for him in last saturday 's chronicle ,
von bork smiled with some bitterness .
he now drew out his notebook and jotted down one or two memoranda .
an impression like a fine bundle of telegraph wires ran down the centre of it .
what was it you wanted to ask , sir ?
lie down there on the sofa , and see if i can put you to sleep .
von bork laughed .
and my words were true , for shortly after eight a hansom dashed up to the door and our friend got out of it .
but it is profoundly true .
how do you get at that ?
it puts him in the power of the cabman .
you will n't fail me .
we are bound to see what it means before he comes .
there is some devilry going forward !
what the scene meant i could not imagine , but it seemed to me that stapleton was abusing sir henry , who offered explanations , which became more angry as the other refused to accept them .
the american , abe slaney , was condemned to death at the winter assizes at norwich , but his penalty was changed to penal servitude in consideration of mitigating circumstances , and the certainty that hilton cubitt had fired the first shot .
now , gentlemen ,
rejoined young drebber , smirking at his own reflection in the glass .
another five minutes , mr holmes , and i should have wormed out the whole story under their very noses .
it was evident that miss cushing had come upon a subject on which she felt very deeply .
i could not have believed that an alarm could have spread so swiftly .
this you promised to do , and this , if common report says truly , you have neglected .
that was the narrative which i read that night to young trevor , and i think , watson , that under the circumstances it was a dramatic one .
i confess that i can make neither head nor tail of it .
mcginty opened his eyes .
clair walked slowly , glancing about in the hope of seeing a cab , as she did not like the neighbourhood in which she found herself .
here they are in this telegram , and the other end of our tangled skein must lie among them .
it 's the bell of the room you were working in .
well , i am glad from my heart that you are here , for indeed the responsibility and the mystery were both becoming too much for my nerves .
quite in the back row , eh ?
the unfortunate tutor was certainly in a state of pitiable agitation when we found him in his chambers .
her name then was mrs hebron .
tales were told in the city of the weird figure which was seen prowling about the suburbs , and which haunted the lonely mountain gorges .
have there been any fresh developments ?
he met me and married me there .
we turn to the country on the north .
hullo !
why do you think so ?
behold the link with brother mycroft !
it 's a pity there are no shutters to your windows .
it beats anything i have seen , and i am no chicken .
our prisoner made no attempt at escape , but stepped calmly into the cab which had been his , and we followed him .
then put on your hat and come .
i may add that i walked out to the athletic grounds this morning , saw that tenacious black clay is used in the jumping pit and carried away a specimen of it , together with some of the fine tan or sawdust which is strewn over it to prevent the athlete from slipping .
fine birds they were , too .
have you found them ?
no great harm was done .
so far i had got when we went to visit the scene of action .
i am much mistaken if it does not bring him down .
of course , i could not say that he had not found the pearl in harker 's bust .
i put that at .
you seem to have a good nerve .
there was no place about the hotel where it would be safe .
they had only led us , however , to a deeper and far more tragic mystery .
imagine my amazement to find the room empty and the patient gone .
there is only one point on which i must insist .
those are all the notices which appeared before the disappearance of the bride .
he dashed into the cottage , and , reappearing with the burning lamp held at full arm 's length , he threw it among a bank of brambles .
i cannot agree with those who rank modesty among the virtues .
poor victor was a dead man on the fourth day a strong , hearty young fellow .
we left him working among his chemicals , and we walked together towards my hotel .
there is no opening except the one pane ,
i fished about with a rake .
if my own servant could not believe my innocence , how could i hope to make it good before twelve foolish tradesmen in a jury box ?
a brougham was waiting at our door .
mr sholto , it is my duty to inform you that anything which you may say will be used against you .
i assure you , sir , that i simply concealed myself in order to see the effect of my disappearance , and i am sure that you would not be so unjust as to imagine that i would have allowed any harm to befall poor young mr mcfarlane .
as he spoke , his nimble fingers were flying here , there , and everywhere , feeling , pressing , unbuttoning , examining , while his eyes wore the same far away expression which i have already remarked upon .
the bloodstain was conclusive , in his opinion , on that point .
it 's infernally dark , ' said he , stamping about .
deeply as i have sinned , i have led a life of martyrdom to atone for it .
came from is also the source of nos .
they are not very hard to deceive ,
holmes was lost in thought for some time .
she was fond of him , too , for he had a remarkable gentleness and courtesy in his dealings with women .
what is it , mr holmes ?
there has been a bad business during the night at , lauriston gardens , off the brixton road .
no more words .
is mr sherlock holmes here ?
it would break their hearts .
the valise was london made , and the contents were british but the man himself was undoubtedly an american .
cried our guide ,
and why should these proofs of the deed be sent to miss sarah cushing ?
he found , as so many more have done , that the practice is easier to attain than to get rid of , and for many years he continued to be a slave to the drug , an object of mingled horror and pity to his friends and relatives .
because it is your post of duty .
yes , sir , that is undoubtedly my hat .
it was then that i wrote and sent the paper to you , mr holmes .
was she in good spirits ?
he does not say so , but i can read it from his soothing answers and averted eyes .
he had to pretend to be drunk in order to allay the suspicions which might have been aroused by his appearance at the gate .
vague shapes swirled and swam amid the dark cloud bank , each a menace and a warning of something coming , the advent of some unspeakable dweller upon the threshold , whose very shadow would blast my soul .
i was sure that he would make an attempt to get me out of the way at once , and would bring round his murderous weapon for that purpose .
i have a theory that the individual represents in his development the whole procession of his ancestors , and that such a sudden turn to good or evil stands for some strong influence which came into the line of his pedigree .
i have formed no conclusion whatever ,
what are you but the paid tool of the capitalists , hired by them to club or shoot your poorer fellow citizen ?
he indicated a heavily sealed dust covered bottle which stood with two high glasses upon a salver .
you are aware that no two thumb marks are alike ?
cried holmes .
that he has not left the service long is shown by his still wearing his ammunition boots , as they are called ,
he had started running swiftly over the moor , and i had followed at his heels .
pray proceed .
that is unlikely .
well , mr holmes , have you proved us to be wrong yet ?
perhaps because he was so angry that you should suspect him .
now the skilful workman is very careful indeed as to what he takes into his brain attic .
next moment i saw them spring apart and turn hurriedly round .
our friends had already secured a first class carriage and were waiting for us upon the platform .
birlstone !
whereat hugo ran from the house , crying to his grooms that they should saddle his mare and unkennel the pack , and giving the hounds a kerchief of the maid ' s , he swung them to the line , and so off full cry in the moonlight over the moor .
then i caught my breath as i read the time honoured title of the great nobleman and statesman whose wife she had been .
when james determined to kidnap lord saltire , it was of this man 's service that he availed himself .
no , you are the one man who can clear the matter up .
what i should do ?
graphic stand by us for gods sake
on emptying this , miss cushing was horrified to find two human ears , apparently quite freshly severed .
well , i gave my mind a thorough rest by plunging into a chemical analysis .
it might be a lover it might be a husband .
that the facts are so obvious that you will find little credit to be gained out of this case .
it is undoubtedly a burn .
there are only those three capable of playing so bold a game there are oberstein , la rothiere , and eduardo lucas .
it seems that both the victims belonged , in their younger days , to the latter day saints , and hope , the deceased prisoner , hails also from salt lake city .
thus it was that in the early spring of that year we found ourselves together in a small cottage near poldhu bay , at the further extremity of the cornish peninsula .
i had just got past the goose step , and learned to handle my musket , when i was fool enough to go swimming in the ganges .
but if you could have stopped , i might possibly have been able to return with you in a day or two .
i am fond of a hand at cards myself , and it was almost as good as having one to watch the others .
this was evidently no ordinary party of immigrants , but rather some nomad people who had been compelled from stress of circumstances to seek themselves a new country .
now we shall turn to the cadogan wests .
well , in the diogenes club , for example .
it is not yet nine .
i have done so ,
these little problems help me to do so .
that will do , mr wilson .
we must push for carson city through the mountains .
when was that ?
no one could swear to his face , poor devil !
this man declares that he was not absent from his post for an instant , and he is positive that neither boy nor man could have gone that way unseen .
murder ! with a thrill i recognized the voice of that of my friend .
we had better come back to the paper afterwards ,
well , every moment now is precious , so if you feel equal to it we shall go down to scotland yard at once as a preliminary to starting for eyford .
we have moved nothing except the lady .
something has been taken .
it is , indeed , the missing man .
the famous smith mortimer succession case comes also within this period , and so does the tracking and arrest of huret , the boulevard assassin an exploit which won for holmes an autograph letter of thanks from the french president and the order of the legion of honour .
the room does not lend itself to concealment , which is as well , as it is the less likely to arouse suspicion .
i never went wrong before !
the next instant holmes and the seaman were rolling on the ground together .
come , lady hilda .
i saw lights in the cottage as i came down .
i felt some reflection of his elation in my own mind , for i knew well that he would not depart so far from his usual austerity of demeanour unless there was good cause for exultation .
you drew some of the gravel from your pocket , and you threw it up at the window above you .
thaddeus sholto talked incessantly , in a voice which rose high above the rattle of the wheels .
it was quite thick enough before ,
he picked it up and gazed at it in the peculiar introspective fashion which was characteristic of him .
i was the first to discover what had occurred .
there is a big fact .
this explanation was borne out by the post mortem examination , which showed long standing organic disease , and the coroner 's jury returned a verdict in accordance with the medical evidence .
i have every sympathy with you , madam , and should strongly urge you to have some confidence in the common sense of our jurisdiction and to take the police voluntarily into your complete confidence .
the curved and shadowed drive led us to a low , dark house , pitch black against a slate coloured sky .
we would fly together to philadelphia or new york , where we would be safe from them .
thus it came about that john douglas of the manor house had within five years won himself quite a reputation in birlstone .
on inquiry , the police have discovered that mme .
well , you 're out there , sir , as it happens , for he ate a remarkable big breakfast this morning .
we had been walking briskly during this conversation , and a few more minutes brought us to the hollow in question .
if no news comes to day , i shall start off myself to morrow , and go for the men rather than the boat .
then a queer thought came into my head and showed me where i could lay my hand on a weapon .
and now let us talk about george meredith , if you please , and we shall leave all minor matters until to morrow .
he had turned his back so that none could see him but i .
at any rate , we may take it as a hypothesis and see what consequences it would entail .
i confess that so far , watson , i had been disappointed in my investigation .
i was laid by the heels for ten days , but trevor used to come in to inquire after me .
he whispered .
then the revellers rode close together , for a great fear was on them , but they still followed over the moor , though each , had he been alone , would have been right glad to have turned his horse 's head .
holmes turned the body over reverently , and examined it with great attention .
they know and shall know nothing of whitehall terrace .
i beg you then , mr holmes , to tell me exactly what has happened and what it will lead to .
he fled when he knew the game was up , still clutching it .
we cannot say what it may lead to .
i trust , sir , that i have not inadvertently
you wore a costume of dove colored silk with ostrich feather trimming .
now , mr mcfarlane , two of my constables are at the door , and there is a four wheeler waiting .
these are only a few indications , but they may assist you .
you will see from what i say that i can hardly be blamed in the matter .
he is a very methodical person , and i did not desire you to start before six , because i was well aware that you would not find him in his study .
dr mortimer looked at his watch in exactly one hour and a quarter .
she advanced along this corridor , leaving no traces upon the cocoanut matting .
sherlock holmes had been silent all the morning , dipping continuously into the advertisement columns of a succession of papers until at last , having apparently given up his search , he had emerged in no very sweet temper to lecture me upon my literary shortcomings .
it saved me from ennui ,
it lies there ready for any one .
there are vague memories in our souls of those misty centuries when the world was in its childhood .
my friend 's face grew graver still .
your reflection , though profound , had already crossed my mind .
it is an amazing coincidence .
sure , half of them are in our pay and half of them afraid of us .
a shade of anxiety seemed to me to cross my companion 's expressive face .
that any theories which i had formed from the newspaper reports were entirely erroneous .
how can you do that ?
i will n't have those things in here , mr lestrade .
to any of the great chancelleries of europe .
anyhow , i could n't let her go .
he bent a pair of wonderfully penetrating and questioning eyes upon us .
is he safe ?
i am delighted to see you .
how do you know this , barrymore ?
by jove !
well , we may have to apply to you again if mrs barclay should prove to be in serious trouble .
sir henry baskerville , northumberland hotel ,
the real reason lay in the reluctance which mr holmes has shown to the continued publication of his experiences .
holmes had picked up the pages which formed the rough draft of the will , and was looking at them with the keenest interest upon his face .
we must make it appear that burglars had done the thing .
he 's the chief foreman of the iron dike company .
and a real snorter it is !
he left woolwich suddenly on monday night .
holmes , however , is , i fancy , of a different way of thinking , and holds to this day that , if one could find the grecian girl , one might learn how the wrongs of herself and her brother came to be avenged .
you can take two men with you manders and reilly .
for answer holmes clapped the hat upon his head .
why should he run wild upon the moor ?
it shows him to be a very wealthy man .
it was so much to him .
then i will go back to him with some faked papers .
who has it ?
to walk across the moor ?
not on the very day of sir charles 's death ?
i wish you to journey back some twenty years in time , and westward some thousands of miles in space , that i may lay before you a singular and terrible narrative so singular and so terrible that you may find it hard to believe that even as i tell it , even so did it occur .
what you say certainly sounds plausible .
what will he do ?
i confess that i can n't explain it .
what happened then i do not know .
and nothing to connect this man simpson with the interests of the mapleton stables ?
in that case i may leave you here ,
to hide some evidence .
i may add that he is enormously rich , and whatever his whims may be he can very easily satisfy them .
my dear watson , can you doubt that it was to him that i first applied ?
worse still , she was rich .
before they reached us , however , desborough 's bolt was shot , and the colonel 's horse , coming away with a rush , passed the post a good six lengths before its rival , the duke of balmoral 's iris making a bad third .
for many years i have been the chief greek interpreter in london , and my name is very well known in the hotels .
phelps was still weak after his long illness , and his misfortune made him querulous and nervous .
there 's not a weak man in the lodge ,
that 's my name in those parts .
i hope you observed all precautions , mrs hudson ?
we may take it , then , that all the evidence points to mortimer tregennis as the culprit .
no reply .
is it possible that i am really in danger from so dark a cause ?
he looked at us in a queer way .
why should a thief try to break in at a bedroom window , where there could be no hope of any plunder , and why should he come with a long knife in his hand ?
when he reached the crest i saw the ragged uncouth figure outlined for an instant against the cold blue sky .
who is cadogan west , and what is he to mycroft ?
but the attempt was a dangerous one , and if garcia did not return by a certain hour it was probable that his own life had been sacrificed .
show them in one by one ,
among my headings under this one twelve months i find an account of the adventure of the paradol chamber , of the amateur mendicant society , who held a luxurious club in the lower vault of a furniture warehouse , of the facts connected with the loss of the british barque sophy anderson , of the singular adventures of the grice patersons in the island of uffa , and finally of the camberwell poisoning case .
i fancy that i have evidence enough to satisfy a jury , even if you are able to pick a hole in it .
i never noticed it before ,
the admiralty in some way got the alarm and every code has been changed .
a few yards from the end the soil was all ploughed up into a patch of mud , and the branches and ferns which fringed the chasm were torn and bedraggled .
exposure and want of wholesome food were wearing him out .
i thought of my fifty guinea fee , of my wearisome journey , and of the unpleasant night which seemed to be before me .
mister , sir , mister a humble m .
i acted for the best .
i 've had enough of him .
shall i go forward and see , brother stangerson ,
he sank his head upon the table and sobbed at the thought of his own impotence .
it nearly came to our sharing the fate of the prisoners , but at last he said that if we wished we might take a boat and go .
if i thought you were an informer
he shook them out on the table , and at once i saw by his eager face that his hopes had been raised .
it came on wednesday .
let us slip out and see what we can see .
you never heard me talk of victor trevor ?
now that i do know it i shall do my best to forget it .
then you may expect us .
she does not shine as a wife even in her own account of what occurred .
he 's been away since yesterday mornin ' , sir , and , truth to tell , i am beginnin'to feel frightened about him .
i exchanged some remarks with him , therefore , and obtained his courteous permission to write the short note which you afterwards received .
the one was an elderly man , with a strong , deep lined , heavy eyed face the other a dashing young fellow , whose bright , smiling expression and showy dress were in strange contrast with the business which had brought us there .
i could even tell that they had been disturbed , for the woman had run back swiftly to the door , as was shown by the deep toe and light heel marks , while wooden leg had waited a little , and then had gone away .
he meets his death five miles from the school not by a bullet , mark you , which even a lad might conceivably discharge , but by a savage blow dealt by a vigorous arm .
how am i to know that you are not a married man you , a stranger , that nobody knows ?
it was all that i could do to persuade him to let me find out miss morstan 's address and send her a detached pearl at fixed intervals , so that at least she might never feel destitute .
now , then : ' found at the corner of goodge street , a goose and a black felt hat .
our lady must have picked her steps carefully , must she not , since on the one side she would leave a track on the path , and on the other an even clearer one on the soft bed ?
i dare say not .
i think it shadowed his whole life .
the question is not how many wives we have , but how many we can keep .
a few months ago we were in hopes that he was about to settle down again for he became engaged to rachel howells , our second house maid but he has thrown her over since then and taken up with janet tregellis , the daughter of the head game keeper .
wait a bit , gregson ,
to the last gasp he would always be the master .
so far as i could learn he had sailed in no other ship .
for the facts are quite recent , and the matter struck me as remarkable .
yes , i think he was .
yes , mr holmes .
pass , and the lord go with you ,
i am convinced myself ,
jump , archie , jump , and i 'll swing for it !
quick , watson quick , or we are done !
she gently turned it towards the light which the typewriter does not generate .
have i not attended at the temple ?
he tore off a strip of the blotting paper and turned towards us the following hieroglyphic :
well , then , to the west , or to england , or to germany , where father came from anywhere to get away from this valley of fear !
she was leaving me this week end , and i had got a trap to take her to the station , but i was so uneasy in my mind that i followed her on my bicycle .
i suppose you have everything ready to leave .
red republicans that 's what i call ' em .
i was sure of it from the first .
it was all that the girl could do to keep herself in the saddle , yet a slip would mean a terrible death under the hoofs of the unwieldy and terrified animals .
i believe you are right , mr holmes .
desiring to say good night , she attempted to enter her son 's room .
it was strange there , in the very depths of the town , with ten miles of man 's handiwork on every side of us , to feel the iron grip of nature , and to be conscious that to the huge elemental forces all london was no more than the molehills that dot the fields .
he helps to keep our lives from being monotonous and gives a little comic relief where it is badly needed .
he writhed , and his long , thin limbs quivered under the blows .
he sat at my side in silence all the time , and i was aware , more than once when i glanced in his direction , that he was looking at me with great intensity .
heavens , sir , what an idea !
you will help me to empty the decanter in honour of this great occasion !
it strikes me solemn to think of it .
all this occurred during the first month of the long vacation .
oh no , there shall be no mistake .
now , mr holder ,
tell us what you can , but stop when you are tired and keep up your strength with a little stimulant .
cried holmes , and we all rushed down the stairs together .
his manner was suddenly genial .
the secretary lay back in the cushions of the luxurious limousine , with his thoughts so full of the impending european tragedy that he hardly observed that as his car swung round the village street it nearly passed over a little ford coming in the opposite direction .
we had first made an examination of the kitchen , and especially of the kitchen fire , to see whether she might have made away with the papers during the instant that she was alone .
i think that possibly i can attain our end by some independent explorations of my own .
not miss harrison here , for example ?
and yet you say he is not a medical student ?
he impressed me as being a perfectly honest man .
who could have foreseen such a terrible catastrophe ?
i 'd be very glad of a hint or two ,
repeated the other , and the two figures flitted away in different directions .
no dates but messages arrange themselves .
there were hardly any .
oh , excuse me an instant !
we searched the garden that night , but found no sign of the intruder , save that just under the window a single footmark was visible in the flower bed .
there can be no question , my dear watson , of the value of exercise before breakfast .
get away from this place at all costs !
sure , what is murder ?
speak out , then !
do n't you remember the amateur who fought three rounds with you at alison 's rooms on the night of your benefit four years back ?
they have laid the supper , then ,
he looked surprised and , as it seemed to me , a little startled at my remark .
as he is reading them i will jump for him and get my grip on his pistol arm .
would the bodymaster see to it that suitable arrangements be made for their lodgings and comfort until the time for action should arrive ?
very good .
again , there was no direct connection between the hound and the man 's death .
i have no doubt that she has only been to the side gate to see someone , but i think that it is hardly safe and should be stopped .
but from that morning he has disappeared , and although a large reward has been offered , and all the gypsies of dartmoor are on the alert , no news has come of him .
so it will be up at the lodge .
from the moment , mr soames , that you said to me that no one , not even bannister , could have told that the papers were in your room , the case began to take a definite shape in my mind .
i had closed the slit between the curtains as milverton 's face had turned in our direction , but now i ventured very carefully to open it once more .
she looked at me with so strange an expression that i began to suspect that her brain was affected .
how long were you with douglas in california ?
not one step could he possibly take either forwards or backwards .
speak out , man !
which surely he restored to their owner ?
but the romance was there ,
we could not leave her lying wounded upon the floor .
murmured holmes .
could n't we start out and scout the country before the fellow gets away ?
it is the most unheard of business .
the woman shook her head .
the only drawback is that there is no law , i fear , that can touch the scoundrel .
his name i will not tell .
i will n't insult your intelligence by telling you how i read that , especially as , rather against the strict rules of your order , you use an arc and compass breastpin .
it lay in the middle .
your three birds are all in their nests ,
you 'll kill the man ,
she was silent and her face was still very pale .
fortunately , there is one man in england who knows all about it , and i have made arrangements by which we shall hear the facts this afternoon from his own lips .
the more formal we made the visit the less information we might obtain .
you have dishonoured me forever !
say again , then , sahib , whether you are with us , or if we must look upon you as an enemy .
gregson is the smartest of the scotland yarders ,
your friend can remain .
i rang the bell , therefore , to summon him .
the root is shaped like a foot , half human , half goatlike hence the fanciful name given by a botanical missionary .
oh , mr holmes !
you will excuse my coming in , doctor ,
as i expected , his reply was typewritten and revealed the same trivial but characteristic defects .
i had let myself go , and was hanging by the hands to the sill , when his blow fell .
that 's why i want to get over the water as soon as you do .
there had been a man in the room , and he had crossed the lawn coming from the road .
i guess i should have some credit , for i have kept my promise .
as we passed it holmes , to my unutterable astonishment , leaned over in front of me and deliberately knocked the whole thing over .
the door was locked on the inside , and no answer could be got to their cries and knocking .
at last however about two in the morning , i suddenly heard the gentle sound of a bolt being pushed back and the creaking of a key .
it was only last night , as you know well , that i swore good faith to our bodymaster .
the same thought had crossed my own mind .
she cried , with an hysterical sob .
this may interest you , lestrade ,
it is this last sudden move .
i slipped out , put on my things , and followed him .
i cried .
i understood that he had opened his campaign against charles augustus milverton , but i little dreamed the strange shape which that campaign was destined to take .
before us lay the dark bulk of the house , its serrated roof and bristling chimneys hard outlined against the silver spangled sky .
well , there 's no use my telling you gentlemen what came of the indian mutiny .
what was this nocturnal expedition , and why should i go armed ?
yes , i think we had better do as you suggest .
oh , mr sherlock holmes !
i confess , my dear fellow , that i am very much in your debt .
i understand that the yew hedge is penetrated at one point by a gate ?
in his eagerness he had wandered far past the ravines which were known to him , and it was no easy matter to pick out the path which he had taken .
it must have been this morning , or the mark would not remain clear upon the finger .
really , now !
no , sir , we have strong reason to believe that he already understands that he has acted in an indiscreet and hot headed manner .
i 'm not convinced yet that there was ever anyone in the house ,
sold his soul to the devil in exchange for money , and expects his creditor to come up and claim his own .
i turned up the time table .
nothing but the worst news came to us from every side , which is not to be wondered at , for if you look at the map you will see that we were right in the heart of it .
holmes sat silently , with his head thrown back and his eyes closed , in an attitude which might seem listless to a stranger , but which i knew betokened the most intense self absorption .
the hall door had been closed , but not shut .
think of the deeds of hellish cruelty , the hidden wickedness which may go on , year in , year out , in such places , and none the wiser .
tell them to stop opposite jacobson 's yard .
how can i decide ?
so long was he that mr holder and i went into the dining room and waited by the fire until he should return .
that 's what i ask you , mr holmes .
to the man who loves art for its own sake ,
as we drove away i stole a glance back , and i still seem to see that little group on the step , the two graceful , clinging figures , the half opened door , the hall light shining through stained glass , the barometer , and the bright stair rods .
to me it has been exceptionally so .
there are three missing .
the vicar , being a bachelor , was glad to come to such an arrangement , though he had little in common with his lodger , who was a thin , dark , spectacled man , with a stoop which gave the impression of actual , physical deformity .
though sir charles had resided at baskerville hall for a comparatively short period his amiability of character and extreme generosity had won the affection and respect of all who had been brought into contact with him .
colonel walter died in prison towards the end of the second year of his sentence .
i am sorry for that , for i wanted to speak to mr smith .
nothing was left save a few acres of ground , and the two hundred year old house , which is itself crushed under a heavy mortgage .
it would have been a coup de maitre had he deduced what i would deduce and acted accordingly .
it will ring in my ears as long as i live .
at once ?
the attack may not have been entirely unexpected .
that head of yours should be for use as well as ornament .
it 's clean against common sense !
you are to be congratulated ,
it was late that night when holmes returned from his solitary excursion .
what do you mean ?
as he reached the corner of goodge street , a row broke out between this stranger and a little knot of roughs .
then i stopped altogether , but he stopped also .
none came save his own cry , which clattered up the dreary silent ravines , and was borne back to his ears in countless repetitions .
of course i never doubted for a moment that my first duty was now to him , and i determined to do just whatever he might direct .
we can settle everything satisfactorily among ourselves , without any interference .
have the goodness , also , when you address me always to say ' sir ' and ' please .
you 'll see your pal again presently ,
i could have struck the man across the face , so hot was i at this callous and off hand reference to so delicate a matter .
beyond lay another dull wilderness of bricks and mortar , its silence broken only by the heavy , regular footfall of the policeman , or the songs and shouts of some belated party of revellers .
there was a mutter of conversation from the next room .
even without the lens you will perceive , by the scratches on this ward , where the pressure was applied .
this villain was able to terrorize him the instant that he got into his presence .
oh , yes , my dear watson , i am perfectly satisfied .
he had saved a few hundreds , and we were to marry at the new year .
there are very few white convicts at this settlement , and , as i had behaved well from the first , i soon found myself a sort of privileged person .
because you failed at the beginning of the inquiry to grasp the importance of the single real clue which was presented to you .
i have been blind !
it was not i who killed her father , ' he cried .
hunter .
he drew up the windows on either side , tapped on the wood work , and away we went as fast as the horse could go .
they then did the deed with the queerest and noisiest weapon in the world so as to tell everyone what had happened a weapon that was never seen in the house before .
he is just over fifty , with grizzled hair and moustache , and about the same height .
your time will come , brother ,
think of that , you villain , you villain !
he bowed me out , and i found myself in the street , hardly knowing whether i was on my head or my heels .
it is for mr thaddeus sholto that i am anxious ,
what do you make of those ?
but thanks to my check book and the good altamont all will be well to night .
holmes scribbled a few words upon the back of one of his visiting cards and threw it over to lestrade .
he had probably been in the pay of moriarty , and had left the two men together .
i nodded to show my agreement .
and now i think that a few hours ' sleep would do us all good , for i do not propose to leave before eleven o clock , and it is unlikely that we shall be back before morning .
what was it you put on that chair near the window ?
it 's lucy that brings me here , and before harm comes on her i guess there will be one less o the hope family in utah .
i have some remembrance ,
you are to station yourself close to that open window .
it was evidently a term of reproach .
why , i am a member of that order myself .
well , well , let us see how he gets on ,
the occupants had evidently retired to rest , for all was dark save for a fanlight over the hall door , which shed a single blurred circle on to the garden path .
i 'm the first to admit that ,
let me , therefore , return to the facts concerning sir henry baskerville .
i was a fool to let her go on biding with us a besotted fool but i never said a word to mary , for i knew it would grieve her .
he rose and peeped into the hut .
when the vicarage caught fire he distinguished himself also by the fearlessness with which he reentered the building to save property , after the local fire brigade had given it up as impossible .
the house was invisible from the road , but the surroundings all spoke of gloom and decay .
our material is rapidly accumulating ,
his knees were drawn up , his head hung at a dreadful angle to his body , and the clatter of his heels against the door made the noise which had broken in upon our conversation .
now he was dancing and laughing and wringing my hand .
finally he returned to the pawnbroker 's , and , having thumped vigorously upon the pavement with his stick two or three times , he went up to the door and knocked .
he raised his hand .
this was obviously impossible in these arid wilds .
there are cases enough here , watson ,
watson , i think that we shall accompany dr huxtable back to the north of england .
i have already said that i do not believe that the duchess would encourage so monstrous an action , but the lad had the most wrong headed opinions , and it is possible that he may have fled to her , aided and abetted by this german .
only cure me , and i 'll forget it .
we heard the steps of our visitors descend the stair and the bang of the front door .
the vast size of the building , with its gloom and its deathly silence , struck a chill to the heart .
as low as you can ,
might i trouble you then to be ready in half an hour , and we can stop at marcini 's for a little dinner on the way ?
montpensier from the charge of murder which hung over her in connection with the death of her step daughter , mlle .
there were also two dress circle tickets for the woolwich theatre , dated for that very evening .
he made a complete voluntary confession .
the western window through which he had stared so intently has , i noticed , one peculiarity above all other windows in the house it commands the nearest outlook on to the moor .
remember that she comes of a caste who do not lightly show emotion .
and the strange thing is , mr sherlock holmes , that if my friend here had not proposed coming round to you this morning i should have come on my own account .
no interference upon our part could have saved the man from his fate , but , as the woman poured bullet after bullet into milverton 's shrinking body i was about to spring out , when i felt holmes 's cold , strong grasp upon my wrist .
there , in that hut upon the moor , seems to lie the very centre of that problem which has vexed me so sorely .
its importance can hardly be exaggerated .
then came the downfall of the tyrant .
when i got back i told my maid , who had known him in california , and had always been his friend .
now , i am aware that there was a most deplorable occurrence in our house last night .
so i think , and so , too , thinks my little mary , who has a woman 's quick insight into character .
fortunately , however , i took no steps , for looking up i saw that the older man was standing in the door way with his eyes fixed upon me .
as he spoke the door opened and a young lady entered the room .
the window of the room was open , and beside the window , all huddled up , lay the body of a man in his nightdress .
finally , he examined with his glass the word upon the wall , going over every letter of it with the most minute exactness .
sure no one can spy upon us now .
he waved his hands frantically to her , and then vanished from the window so suddenly that it seemed to her that he had been plucked back by some irresistible force from behind .
i had my chance , and , starting from that point , i have woven my net round him until now it is all ready to close .
yes , and belgium , too .
the head had been beaten in by repeated blows of some heavy and blunt weapon .
as i approached my outer door , i was amazed to see a key in it .
you answer me that , ettie !
in this case it certainly is so ,
she smiled , but there was no answering smile in holmes ' thin , eager face .
old shafter was quite ready .
well , i 'm bound to say i 've always found you had reason behind all your queer ways .
my dear fellow , you must trust me implicitly and do exactly what i tell you .
the lady broke away , and i 've got her in a cab downstairs .
exactly .
my hand has been forced , however , by the recent letters in which colonel james moriarty defends the memory of his brother , and i have no choice but to lay the facts before the public exactly as they occurred .
i have known him for some time ,
once only he paused in his patient investigation .
in you come , sir , in you come , you and your friends ,
the case has certainly some points of interest ,
there were the chemical corner and the acid stained , deal topped table .
such as they are , they are set forth in a single article of a morning paper of yesterday , which i will read to you .
from chicago he went under a changed name to california , and it was there that the light went for a time out of his life when ettie edwards died .
then i tied the bodies into the boat , stove a plank , and stood by until they had sunk .
the candle threw a very bad light .
godfrey read it , and fell back in a chair as if he had been pole axed .
that you , mr thaddeus ?
i cried
the man got into the house between four thirty and six that is to say , between dusk and the time when the bridge was raised .
you wish me to come ?
the ordinary london growler is considerably less wide than a gentleman 's brougham .
you would depart , of course , in the same fashion , and your ally would draw up the rope , untie it from the hook , shut the window , snib it on the inside , and get away in the way that he originally came .
but you do not yourself look upon this as likely ?
my cab is out of shipley 's yard , near waterloo station .
only too well .
i presume that this jim browner , the steward of a liverpool boat , is the man whom you suspect ?
well , i could n't be sure of that , but i dare say my fare knew all about it .
then he raised his revolver and covered the young ruffian , who was advancing upon him with his dangerous riding crop swinging in his hand .
i 'm not staying in this gol darned country all on my lonesome .
everywhere there were stern signs of the crudest battle of life , the rude work to be done , and the rude , strong workers who did it .
because , from his bedroom window , he saw the flight of the boy , because he wished to overtake him and bring him back .
his wife !
i know that everything was turning round , and the words of the clergyman were just like the buzz of a bee in my ear .
she treated me as fairly as ever a woman treated a man .
i fainted when it was done , and i think that i must have been senseless for a long time .
to better myself !
by the way , since you are interested in these little problems , and since you are good enough to chronicle one or two of my trifling experiences , you may be interested in this .
one of them drove down with me to waterloo , and saw me into the woking train .
i was sorry to cause you the sympathetic pain which i know that you felt .
this must have been well known to the robbers , or they would not have acted as they did .
tell us the truth , for there lies your only hope of safety .
the ceiling was only a foot or two above my head , and with my hand upraised i could feel its hard , rough surface .
he thrust out his face and grinned at the patrolmen like a snarling dog .
oh , no , no !
we hired a hansom , and in half an hour we were at the address which had been given to us .
the man 's business was a small one , and there was nothing in his house which could account for such elaborate preparations , and such an expenditure as they were at .
i have heard you say that it is difficult for a man to have any object in daily use without leaving the impress of his individuality upon it in such a way that a trained observer might read it .
puerile as such an exercise may seem , it sharpens the faculties of observation , and teaches one where to look and what to look for .
finally we set out in the company of the detective on our visit to wisteria lodge .
that evening found us in the cold , bracing atmosphere of the peak country , in which dr huxtable 's famous school is situated .
if you have ever aided him in evil , help us now and so atone .
well , perhaps his explanation may be the right one , but i should like to have some further proof of it .
you have lost one of your boots ?
the man hesitated for an instant .
but consider !
slipping through the shouting crowd i made my way to the corner of the street , and in ten minutes was rejoiced to find my friend 's arm in mine , and to get away from the scene of uproar .
nothing would annoy brother bartholomew more than any publicity .
in the country , i presume , from your complexion .
you have already imperilled the whole success of our expedition .
he only plans .
neville wrote those words .
and now , gentlemen , i have one or two little interviews this evening , and it is a long drive to hampstead .
as to holmes , he returned refreshed to his monograph upon the polyphonic motets of lassus , which has since been printed for private circulation , and is said by experts to be the last word upon the subject .
therefore , he must have been in close league with one of the servants .
i could not find my stick , and he said , ' never mind , my boy , i shall see a good deal of you now , i hope , and i will keep your stick until you come back to claim it .
at the same time i must remain with my prisoner , and i am bound to warn him that anything he may say will appear in evidence against him .
yes , i have his assurance ,
but in any case i feel that the money should go with the title and estate .
an inspection of his chair showed me that he had been in the habit of standing on it , which of course would be necessary in order that he should reach the ventilator .
i am afraid not ,
we know that there is someone who has the facts if we can only find her .
no , sir , we are very proud of you , and if you come down to morrow , there 's not a man , from the oldest inspector to the youngest constable , who would n't be glad to shake you by the hand .
the sailor stood looking at him with puckered eyes , and with the same loose lipped smile upon his face .
i am off down the river , watson ,
well , that is clear enough , certainly .
how long will it take you to make up your mind ?
i am much obliged for your assistance .
and a whiskey and soda ?
you know that i hate it .
for pity 's sake do n't , and may you be treated in your day of agony as you treat me now .
i found him in the hands of a faker , and took the liberty of running him just as he was sent over .
i must admit , however , that i was somewhat surprised when , some five days after the crime , i opened my morning paper to find in large letters :
it is possible that i may be in a position then to indicate some course of action .
you have received your rent , and he is not a troublesome lodger , though he is certainly an unusual one .
yes , that is so ,
as it was done yesterday the strong probability was that we should find the words in yesterday 's issue .
and is that all ?
they are absolutely correct in every particular .
i ventured to remark .
but somehow this case attracts me .
i hopped off before we came to the door , and strolled down the street in an easy , lounging way .
the officer gave the usual cautions .
you see that it runs east and west past the school , and you see also that there is no side road for a mile either way .
you must admit , my dear watson , that the idea of a joke is impossible .
the man 's insolence was maddening , but we could not resent it .
i could not live there longer without some advice .
on the farther side of it , under the shadow of a mighty oak , there stood a singular group of three people .
practical , but limited .
and brought miss hunter down from london in order to get rid of the disagreeable persistence of mr fowler .
i watched them , watson , and i picked them as they ripened .
texas , i think .
a telegram for you , mr holmes ,
there is one thing ,
we have no means of judging .
so long as i am alive and they are alive , there is no safety in this world for me .
ay , i heard of that ,
i was able to establish the identity of the man and the woman and knew at last exactly how i stood .
so i think , watson , that i must leave you to your papers for a little .
what do you make of that ?
turner was apparently the richer man , so mccarthy became his tenant but still remained , it seems , upon terms of perfect equality , as they were frequently together .
this led him to paganini , and we sat for an hour over a bottle of claret while he told me anecdote after anecdote of that extraordinary man .
at the end of the week .
well , mr holmes , when i got back to my lodgings and found little enough in the cupboard , and two or three bills upon the table , i began to ask myself whether i had not done a very foolish thing .
what 's this , mr holmes ?
of the two pills in that box one was of the most deadly poison , and the other was entirely harmless .
they paid smith well to hold his tongue , reserved his launch for the final escape , and hurried to their lodgings with the treasure box .
he found that the stone which covered it was just too heavy for a man to move unaided .
can you suggest any possible motive for taking the papers to london except to sell them ?
audley court was not an attractive locality .
you can n't help it , my dear watson .
absolutely none .
a constable met us at the garden gate .
therefore we may say with confidence that the wooden legged man is identical with jonathan small .
good heavens !
a carriage heavily loaded with luggage has passed out during the last hour .
my friend rose lazily from his armchair and stood with his hands in the pockets of his dressing gown , looking over my shoulder .
i swear that another day shall not have passed before i have done all that man can do to reach the heart of the mystery .
you may believe , then , that i was in my consulting room when , at the appointed hour , the page showed in the patient .
you will get down here , mr melas ,
you want the money before you give up the book .
in any other case the conspirators would have simply called out their man , as they had many a time before , and emptied their pistols into his body but in this instance it was very necessary to find out how much he knew , how he knew it , and what had been passed on to his employers .
these are my last words ,
so you came over , the two of you , and hunted up the girl .
in that , doctor , you will find yourself in agreement with every criminal in the country ,
then ' j .
for some days holmes came and went at all hours in this attire , but beyond a remark that his time was spent at hampstead , and that it was not wasted , i knew nothing of what he was doing .
it is my advice ,
a splendid park with fine old timber surrounds the house , and the lake , to which my client had referred , lay close to the avenue , about two hundred yards from the building .
what an extraordinary assortment !
i ordered her to say nothing , but to get a few things packed and my ulster ready .
i am thankful , madam , that you have come to your senses even at this last moment !
that , homely as it looks , this thing has some deadly story linked on to it that it is the clue which will guide you in the solution of some mystery and the punishment of some crime .
you will have a couple of hundred thousand each .
he holds it in a stiff and unnatural manner .
dr watson has already heard of it .
a steep curve of heath clad land , an outlying spur of the moor , lay in front of us .
then i shall drop you a line to let you know how we progress .
and the noise is going to bring every damned copper in the township on top of it .
i cried .
there could be no possible reason .
we passed down the passage , which was of the same length as that which led to the garden .
he heard no shot but it was hardly possible he would , as the pantry and kitchens were at the very back of the house and there were several closed doors and a long passage between .
you do n't mind breaking the law ?
the blood had been streaming from my nose , but i had taken no notice of it .
i shouted , however , and that brought joseph down , and he roused the others .
so it ended by my accepting , and i went down to chiltern grange , about six miles from farnham .
might i ask you all to join in the cry of ' fire !
now , gentlemen , perhaps you will allow me to give you the views i have formed first , and then you will be able to arrive at your own .
my god , it 's nancy !
and , finally , would you take the great pains to conceal the body , and yet leave your own stick as a sign that you were the criminal ?
any injury to it would be almost as serious as its complete loss , for there are no beryls in the world to match these , and it would be impossible to replace them .
how did you know it , then ?
he forced his way into the room , where i was sitting with my daughter , and made some incoherent remark about having missed his train .
there she lies , with the red streaks .
on the sixth day , he reached the eagle ca on , from which they had commenced their ill fated flight .
minerals in lancashire and wales .
and now ?
he expected that he would receive some message or remonstrance from young as to his conduct , and he was not mistaken , though it came in an unlooked for manner .
i do n't suppose they remember faces in so busy a place .
there was no living creature near the remains of the fire : animals , man , maiden , all were gone .
i was thinking the same ,
north , and east , and west he looked with wild questioning eyes , and then he realised that his wanderings had come to an end , and that there , on that barren crag , he was about to die .
the matches have , of course , been used to light cigarettes .
holmes and i rushed out and round the angle of the house , with toller hurrying behind us .
there was the same shortening of the pinna , the same broad curve of the upper lobe , the same convolution of the inner cartilage .
what 's the man done ?
it was too late , however , for we were rapidly gathering momentum , and an instant later had shot clear of the station .
a rare good man , as true as a stock to a barrel .
did the gentleman give a name ?
i am rather in the dark still .
here are twenty three shillings .
yet that is precisely what we are about to make .
the silence of the deserted street reassured him .
he added after a pause .
or was it ?
macdonald made an occasional note while holmes sat absorbed , with the expression of surprised and reverent admiration with which the botanist surveys the rare and precious bloom .
his brow glistened with perspiration , his cheeks were of the dull , dead white of a fish 's belly , and his eyes were wild and staring .
i have given up looking for either the one or the other ,
all this seems strange to you ,
and i return with an excellent appetite .
we heard the servant pass along the hall , and the sharp click of the latch as she opened it .
holmes thrust the blue envelope deep down into the heart of them , between the leaves of some other document .
still , of course , one can n't refuse a lady , and such a very positive one , too .
my page who admits patients is a new boy and by no means quick .
another cyclist could have had nothing to do with the actual murder , nor were there any human foot marks .
yes , sir '
moist climate , coral reefs , sharks , port blair , convict barracks , rutland island , cottonwoods ah , here we are .
it was the face of a woman cut out of a portrait .
it appears that she was formerly a danseuse at the allegro , and that she has known the bridegroom for some years .
the situation to him must have been a maddening one .
there is one predominant ' he ' for all of them .
i did n't know what to do .
holmes thought for a little .
you will have to break it open .
brunton , the butler , was in the library .
we never thought that she would have been so carried away .
it is crushing the nut with the triphammer an absurd extravagance of energy but the nut is very effectually crushed all the same .
this family paper was committed to my care by sir charles baskerville , whose sudden and tragic death some three months ago created so much excitement in devonshire .
what was it then , and how had it affected his fate ?
no one knows a word of the matter , but you can imagine how maddening it must be to him to be upbraided for not doing what he would give his very eyes to do , but what he knows to be absolutely impossible .
we did our very best to keep the thing from everyone , for , when once such a whisper gets about , it is not long before everyone has heard it .
now , you will observe that he could not have been on the staff of the hospital , since only a man well established in a london practice could hold such a position , and such a one would not drift into the country .
what about this curtain ?
her husband lies snoring on the kitchen rug .
but what had been in the box ?
see that candle on the mantelpiece .
and then it will all come out ?
what you say may be used in evidence .
the usual revelry of the lodge was short and subdued : for there was a cloud upon the men 's spirits , and many there for the first time began to see the cloud of avenging law drifting up in that serene sky under which they had dwelt so long .
he is a boss of scowrers .
excuse my curiosity , but often in calling upon one friend one finds another .
the study proved to be a small chamber , lined on three sides with books , and with a writing table facing an ordinary window , which looked out upon the garden .
takes you as cramp , i fancy .
secondary inference , that he had occasional bursts of prosperity , or he could not have redeemed the pledge .
away we went then , and we drove for at least an hour .
how 's that , mr holmes ?
at the end were the signatures of the high dignitaries who had signed it .
i do n't believe that i can swing over the job .
i can well remember driving up to his house in the evening some three weeks before the fatal event .
it seemed to me that i could manage the thing easily through tonga .
you recognize the symptoms ?
it will very much depend upon the results of my first inquiries .
see here , my lad ,
as long as the criminal remains upon two legs so long must there be some indentation , some abrasion , some trifling displacement which can be detected by the scientific searcher .
a boulder of granite concealed our approach , and crouching behind it we gazed over it at the signal light .
look it up in the books , sir it will repay reading frankland v .
why not ?
he was watching the road along which we travelled .
he introduced himself as inspector martin , of the norfolk constabulary , and he was considerably astonished when he heard the name of my companion .
he raised his eyes languidly from the old black letter volume which he had opened .
our plantation was at a place called muttra , near the border of the northwest provinces .
i knew it had not been there the day before .
on the one hand , the traitor is dead .
in this way we should be able to watch our man if he struck a light , and see what his object was in this stealthy nocturnal visit .
there are no better instruments than discharged servants with a grievance , and i was lucky enough to find one .
so grotesque was the attitude that i could not for the instant realize that that moan had been the passing of his soul .
what does dr james mortimer , the man of science , ask of sherlock holmes , the specialist in crime ?
he must have placed it on the table before he was attacked otherwise , of course , it would have fallen when he fell .
they are here , in my overcoat .
i 'm an excellent subject , if you can deduce anything from me .
scott eccles ,
i hardly expected that you would .
but there could be no mistake about such a matter as that .
i turned the handle and walked in .
his look of importance showed that his day 's work had not been in vain .
when you have one of the first brains of europe up against you , and all the powers of darkness at his back , there are infinite possibilities .
she looked back at us from the door , and i had a last impression of that beautiful haunted face , the startled eyes , and the drawn mouth .
at his remark i drew the weapon out and laid it cocked upon the table .
at the foot of the stairs , however , she met this lascar scoundrel of whom i have spoken , who thrust her back and , aided by a dane , who acts as assistant there , pushed her out into the street .
i saw him out of the window , but i am glad to say i did not meet him .
thus , if the rebels won he would have his money , but if the company conquered his jewels would be saved to him .
you forget that i know nothing about it .
well , i waited for a quarter of an hour , or more , when suddenly there came a noise like people struggling inside the house .
absolutely nothing .
and what is it we are watching for ?
all that i have learned i got from a friendly native in the yard of our own inn .
i shall jot down the facts .
and so was i at first .
who is the printer ?
he learned to play heavily at cards and to squander money on the turf , until he had again and again to come to me and implore me to give him an advance upon his allowance , that he might settle his debts of honour .
i am a good catholic but the priest would have no word with me when he heard i was a scowrer , and i am excommunicated from my faith .
we can do with a bad man or two among us , friend mcmurdo : for there are times when we have to take our own part .
our leader moved across the river , therefore , and took up his position in the old fort at agra .
within an hour , i was on the spot and had taken over the case .
no , my dear watson , the two events are connected must be connected .
and what deep and earnest purpose can he have which calls for such a trial !
the body could only have come on the line in that way .
when you are once out upon its bosom you have left all traces of modern england behind you , but , on the other hand , you are conscious everywhere of the homes and the work of the prehistoric people .
had she only been guilty of silence as to his fate ?
it was a very dark night , and a thin rain began to fall as we turned from the high road into a narrow lane , deeply rutted , with hedges on either side .
she does not know the danger ,
it is a noiseless lock ,
the bride , who had fortunately entered the house before this unpleasant interruption , had sat down to breakfast with the rest , when she complained of a sudden indisposition and retired to her room .
i shall be very much surprised , however , if it is still so when he reconnoitres it this evening .
yes , the horse .
i 'll let you have two horses as far as the hall .
i think if you could both make it convenient to come with us about eight o'clock to caulfield gardens we might possibly get a little nearer to a solution .
and i to find an enemy .
i cried with some bitterness .
a man of the name of murphy had given him the address in chicago .
it is nothing .
i do not know how i could employ my time better .
if you care to smoke a cigar in our rooms , colonel , i shall be happy to give you any other details which might interest you .
what , does he hate the police too ?
he 'll come , never fear ,
ah , mrs warren !
so accustomed was i to his invariable success that the very possibility of his failing had ceased to enter into my head .
no doubt , but this was no sheep dog .
holmes and i had listened with the utmost interest to this extraordinary statement , which had been delivered in the jerky , broken fashion of a man who is under the influence of extreme emotions .
he cried , looking him up and down .
my old man woke up jim , that 's my eldest , and away they went , without so much as a word to me .
i heard you marching about in the night .
the country had been a place of terror but the town was in its way even more depressing .
if so , we should be able to shadow him and see what it is that he is after .
pipes are occasionally of extraordinary interest ,
do you think i was sorry ?
i must confess that i am out of my depths ,
i walked over to the window , and stood looking out into the busy street .
he did , as a matter of fact , marry , and had one child , this fellow , whose real name is the same as his father ' s .
a pretty mess you 've made of the carpet .
i saw an intent look pass over holmes 's face .
he poured some whisky into a glass and handed it to him .
i shall take nothing for granted until i have the opportunity of looking personally into it .
in that case , regarding stapleton as an unmarried man , she counted no doubt upon becoming his wife .
thank god you kept your seat ,
i want one boy to be at mordecai smith 's landing stage opposite millbank to say if the boat comes back .
i cannot , and i will not , believe it !
good heavens !
the thing is too great a one for us to hesitate .
i thought of the agonies i had gone through in coming from the hotel .
there was a low murmur of applause .
yes , sir , i have , but the shock of this disgraceful exposure has bewildered me .
yes , watson , there are good reasons to suspect that there has been a substitution of lodgers .
you have done well indeed !
points ,
we had shot through the pool , past the west india docks , down the long deptford reach , and up again after rounding the isle of dogs .
it was well that we had so clear a view of him .
i looked up at the sun .
these papers are now ready , watson .
now the question is , where are we to find the photograph ?
the bridge , no doubt , was too crowded , even on such a night , for their purpose .
is it possible that you succeeded in climbing out of that awful abyss ?
one moment , mrs hudson , there may be an answer .
i exclaimed .
i really think that i should have fainted if i had not gone out .
i should be glad to come .
look at that mark upon the seat of the oaken chair !
to see mrs laura lyons ?
these deeds are written in history , and there are records wherein one may read the details of them .
if she wrote the note she was presumably the friend and confederate of garcia .
with all my omissions , however , there was enough to startle and amaze them .
cried our wretched prisoner .
i will n't deny that there was some feeling about the division of the money and it stood between us for a time , but it was all forgiven and forgotten , and we were the best of friends together .
nothing , until my uncle here began to speak loudly .
in worcestershire the life of a man seems a great and a sacred thing but it is very different when there is fire and blood all round you and you have been used to meeting death at every turn .
if so , much may have happened between .
you must know that every saturday forenoon i ride on my bicycle to farnham station , in order to get the : to town .
things have taken a turn which i could not have anticipated .
it is suggestive that during the last three years there have been four considerable burglaries in the west country , for none of which was any criminal ever arrested .
as i have already said , there is no man living who can fear death less than i do .
i call him father , though it sounds funny , too , for he is only five years and two months older than myself .
then you could hardly have been overheard ?
as to the latter part , i have no means of checking you ,
he comes at ten .
where is it , watson ?
i had rather not be the man that crossed him !
he raised the cork and examined it minutely .
no , no , my dear watson !
later .
we are safe from interruption .
i wished to go in that direction and to search the tor , but it was some distance away .
the night was clear and fine above us .
at last , however , came what we had waited for so long .
you can now go and fetch mr culverton smith , of lower burke street .
he impressed me , this country specialist .
to day , about three o clock , the proofs of this paper arrived from the printers .
but no heroes , returning from a forlorn hope , could have had a warmer welcome from their comrades .
give him food and drink , and the child likewise .
there 's the devilish cunning of it !
an alarm !
i think you had best see her and hear her account of the facts .
on the contrary , he has done quite remarkably well ,
i must apologize for calling so late ,
a clump of copper beeches immediately in front of the hall door has given its name to the place .
he was small , nervous , alert with intelligent light blue eyes and mobile features .
colossal !
following the path backwards , we picked out another spot , where a spring trickled across it .
but our trap should be here .
this is the girl 's stepfather , mr james windibank ,
he is only wanting in knowledge and that may come in time .
it was nearly five before we were back in baker street once more .
she met my difficulty with the utmost readiness .
then i laid a trap for him .
cried the banker with a gesture of despair .
oh , what shall i do !
why , hardly ,
victor trevor sank his face into his shaking hands .
come , watson ,
i will leave the country , sir then the charge against him will break down .
if you will wait , one or other of us will go back with you to the hall .
it was child 's play .
he insisted upon my climbing into his dog cart , and he gave me a lift homeward .
by gar !
it is inconceivable that this fellow could have made two such vindictive enemies as these appear to be without knowing of it .
why , mr holmes , i thought you knew things ,
if his purpose were innocent , why did he not say so ?
you will , i am sure , agree with me that if the page be given , the number of the chapter is immaterial .
he had lost them all , sir , except the one which was in his blow pipe at the time .
do not trouble about my feelings .
the demonstration is complete .
and now ,
when next it comes to a vote
he was gaining on the sikh , and i could see that if he once passed me and got to the open air he would save himself yet .
he came out , and assures me that , though everything has been done , no trace of a clue has been discovered .
who will volunteer for the job ?
morris did n't know i could earn a living here at home .
we got into a cab together , and away we drove to some lodgings he had taken in gordon square , and that was my true wedding after all those years of waiting .
thrust it into his pocket , most likely , never noticing that a corner of it had been left in the grip of the corpse .
i should be prepared to swear that it was you .
record of a series of messages in the advertisements of a paper .
you suppose that your son came down from his bed , went , at great risk , to your dressing room , opened your bureau , took out your coronet , broke off by main force a small portion of it , went off to some other place , concealed three gems out of the thirty nine , with such skill that nobody can find them , and then returned with the other thirty six into the room in which he exposed himself to the greatest danger of being discovered .
was there a human agency in the matter ?
what sort of a man is he ?
then holmes and i both fired together , and the creature gave a hideous howl , which showed that one at least had hit him .
the various bedrooms and sitting rooms had yielded nothing to a careful search .
occasionally in our rambles we came across inspector baynes .
there was one little sallow rat faced , dark eyed fellow who was introduced to me as mr lestrade , and who came three or four times in a single week .
it was a large square room , looking all the larger from the absence of all furniture .
that 's god 's truth , gentlemen , every word of it , and i heard no more about it until that lad came riding up with a note which made me walk in here , like a jay , and give myself into your hands .
the young traveller gazed out into this dismal country with a face of mingled repulsion and interest , which showed that the scene was new to him .
i thought as much !
do you mean to say that you read my train of thoughts from my features ?
i was in the box room at the time , and my wife brought it up to me .
i will leave your house in the morning and make my own way in the world .
then i walked across to the window , hoping that i might catch some glimpse of the country side , but an oak shutter , heavily barred , was folded across it .
he held it tenderly towards the light .
and all in four years , baron .
my friend ascended with the doctor to the chamber of death , while i remained in the study , turning the whole matter over and over in my head , and feeling as sombre as ever i had done in my life .
boots which extended halfway up his calves , and which were trimmed at the tops with rich brown fur , completed the impression of barbaric opulence which was suggested by his whole appearance .
but i feared so much lest he should do arthur that is , lord saltire a mischief , that i dispatched him for safety to dr huxtable 's school .
i act entirely from a sense of public duty .
now , mr trelawney hope , i should be much obliged if you would tell me exactly the circumstances under which this document disappeared .
i remember that during our short visit we found the vicar garrulous , but his lodger strangely reticent , a sad faced , introspective man , sitting with averted eyes , brooding apparently upon his own affairs .
all her pretty ways too there was not one of them which he could not suggest and bring back to my memory .
the net is drawn pretty close round fitzroy simpson ,
it had hardly died away when an amazing thing happened .
mumbled baldwin , feeling his throat .
i must take the view , your grace , that when a man embarks upon a crime , he is morally guilty of any other crime which may spring from it .
here are four cigar ends that i picked out of the fireplace .
author of ' some freaks of atavism ' lancet .
von bork shook his head .
we had occasion some months ago to strengthen our resources and borrowed for that purpose , napoleons from the bank of france .
at last , however , on a wild , tempestuous evening , when the wind screamed and rattled against the windows , he returned from his last expedition , and having removed his disguise he sat before the fire and laughed heartily in his silent inward fashion .
what occurred during that time has not yet transpired , but at a quarter to twelve police constable barrett , passing along godolphin street observed that the door of no .
he could not deny the justice of my request , so with a rather rueful face he went off to his bedroom , from which he returned presently pulling a large tin box behind him .
i entirely believe you , madam ,
the knees of his trousers .
that is easily managed .
get out !
the window , the curtains , the carpet , the chair , the rope each in turn was minutely examined and duly pondered .
suppose a man had fired through the window , he would indeed be a remarkable shot who could with a revolver inflict so deadly a wound .
therefore , it is not heidegger 's track .
a cipher message , holmes .
oh , he rates my assistance too highly ,
, principal of the theological college of st .
they declare that no one passed .
surely the person against whom the criminal enterprise was directed .
i have no doubt that what she heard was the report of the gun , and that this was the real instant of the murder .
halloa !
he struck his stick sharply upon the ground , on which a cabman , his whip in his hand , sauntered over from a four wheeler which stood on the far side of the street .
it is a hat of the very best quality .
then , suddenly springing to his feet , he beat his head against the wall with such force that we both rushed upon him and tore him away to the centre of the room .
thus day followed day and as sure as morning came he found that his unseen enemies had kept their register , and had marked up in some conspicuous position how many days were still left to him out of the month of grace .
i had at that time just entered the family of mrs cecil forrester in the capacity of governess .
but once as i looked through my window , i saw two italians watching the house , and i understood that in some way gorgiano had found our retreat .
she was greatly excited , trembling all over , but made no other attempt to go downstairs .
i am saved !
a pretty justice !
the speaker continued ,
lady brackenstall was reclining on the same couch , but looked brighter than before .
seven white faces , all turned upward to this man who dominated them , were set motionless with utter terror .
what was he doing there at all ?
thank you , mrs st .
see what you can make of that , friend watson .
this was the organization which i deduced , watson , and which i devoted my whole energy to exposing and breaking up .
i fear that you think me callous and hard hearted ,
are his hands loose ?
the greeting between the lovers was warm , but brief , for minutes were precious , and there was much to be done .
it is my desire that every possible effort should be made .
as my eyes fell upon it , i gave a gasp and a cry of amazement .
we had heard the creak of a step in the passage .
some of my papers have gone ,
well , we 're bound to take you on your own terms ,
here in london we have lots of government detectives and lots of private ones .
but then , as i used to say to mother , a woman wants her own circle to begin with , and i had not got mine yet .
i will tell you it all .
the man who entered was a strange and impressive figure .
it 's the baker street division of the detective police force ,
but his words had moved mcmurdo deeply .
my companion noiselessly closed the shutters , moved the lamp onto the table , and cast his eyes round the room .
to any one who wishes to study mankind this is the spot ,
the magnificent spectacle cheered the hearts of the three fugitives and gave them fresh energy .
good morning , holmes ,
before this avenger got away , barker and the wife had reached the room .
murmured holmes .
she was like one walking in her sleep , but when they tried to get her into the train she came to life and struggled .
however , it 's a two to one chance that we get something to pay us for our trouble .
there was a savage struggle .
it is a thousand pities that we have not a reproduction of those which were done in chalk upon the window sill .
but all the rest was inconceivable .
you must assert that in such words as will carry conviction with them .
nothing except that he is an old soldier .
he is the one with the worst record .
he gesticulated and almost danced with excitement in front of the lovers .
you have brought detection as near an exact science as it ever will be brought in this world .
you have killed him !
are my other guns .
with much labour we separated them and carried him , living but horribly mangled , into the house .
we were in milverton 's study , and a portiere at the farther side showed the entrance to his bedroom .
daily telegraph agony column by the print and paper .
maybe we 'll see more of you before very long ,
you have come to me to tell your story , have you not ?
the brother , on his arrival in england , had imprudently placed himself in the power of latimer and of his associate , whose name was wilson kemp a man of the foulest antecedents .
i could not catch what stangerson said to that , but the other burst out swearing , and reminded him that he was nothing more than his paid servant , and that he must not presume to dictate to him .
there was a family quarrel about money which estranged this man mortimer , but it was supposed to be made up , and i afterwards met him as i did the others .
when mrs charpentier paused ,
my only desire is to help the law in every possible way .
holmes glanced at it and threw it over to me .
his remaining behind and his french name were really the only two points which could suggest suspicion but , as a matter of fact , i did not begin work until he had gone , and his people are of huguenot extraction , but as english in sympathy and tradition as you and i are .
if the police would desire further information i shall be happy to see any of them at the cottage .
see the cloud of a hundred chimneys that overshadows it !
we have a clear run here of seventy minutes ,
now , watson ,
on the flap .
no , i have moved nothing .
well , that 's all we could reasonably expect from morse hudson ,
at last he mastered himself and sat down once more at his desk .
over the green squares of the fields and the low curve of a wood there rose in the distance a gray , melancholy hill , with a strange jagged summit , dim and vague in the distance , like some fantastic landscape in a dream .
things are turning a little in our direction at last .
as far as i could judge , the figure was that of a tall , thin man .
they began by using him as a short cut , a convenience now he has made himself an essential .
but it was some time coming .
you can take what steps you like .
cried macdonald , jumping from his chair .
i thought , at any rate , that i should call you and give you the chance .
it is , of course , a trifle , but there is nothing so important as trifles .
i have a note of mr holmes 's address .
you are a funny one ,
she was frightened by my face , i think , for she never answered a word , and the same evening she left my house .
she cried , with a nervous laugh .
you came across someone who was smarter this time .
together we rushed into the room .
coming down with unsigned warrant .
baynes had been summoned by holmes , and the situation rapidly explained to him .
there 's the story of the valley of fear .
i chose the place where the three fir trees stand , and behind their screen i got over without the least chance of any one in the house being able to see me .
von bork sprang to his feet .
when do you desire to go ?
that 's the physic for the likes of you ,
i am a practical man , mr holmes , and when i have got my evidence i come to my conclusions .
i could see from miss morstan 's manner that she was suffering from the same feeling .
were the relations between father and son very friendly ?
the little detective smiled .
had you doubted it , then ?
go on , though .
it was lost , if i remember aright , at the hotel cosmopolitan ,
it was extremely good of you .
you think , then , that some dog pursued sir charles , and that he died of fright in consequence ?
i will go alone .
i suggested ,
being himself childless , it was his openly expressed desire that the whole countryside should , within his own lifetime , profit by his good fortune , and many will have personal reasons for bewailing his untimely end .
exactly , watson .
the man whom you held in your hands is the man who holds the clue of this mystery , and whom we are seeking .
preserve it carefully , then , miss morstan , for it may prove to be of use to us .
the first message submitted to me was so short that it was impossible for me to do more than to say , with some confidence , that the symbol xxx stood for e .
the funds of the society were raised by blackmailing rich italians and threatening them with violence should they refuse the money .
he has undergone hardship and sickness , as his haggard face says clearly .
that 's common sense .
i 'll fight him with fists , or , if that will n't satisfy him , i 'll fight him any other way he chooses .
can you rise superior to the heat and run down to croydon with me on the off chance of a case for your annals ?
we have still the cabman who drove the spy .
surely !
the sergeant had drawn out his notebook .
wily and bold , he and his companion threw their pursuer off their track by entering a lodging house in edmonton street and leaving by the back gate into curzon square .
you see , watson ,
holmes bent over this grotesque frieze for some minutes , and then suddenly sprang to his feet with an exclamation of surprise and dismay .
if she had been willing to help justice she would probably have communicated with the police already .
therefore it must have been taken from it .
that 's the puzzling part .
helen !
he sat down at the table and scribbled a check , which he tore from the book , but he refrained from handing it to his companion .
she is impetuous volcanic , i was about to say .
one day , however , when the autumn was far advanced and the vacation drawing to a close , i received a telegram from my friend imploring me to return to donnithorpe , and saying that he was in great need of my advice and assistance .
who would associate crime with these dear old homesteads ?
he had been a pioneer in california , and could narrate many a strange tale of fortunes made and fortunes lost in those wild , halcyon days .
my dear fellow ,
cried the inspector ,
quite so .
they slept in adjoining rooms , and mrs king had rushed in to saunders .
neither my son nor i want anything from jonas oldacre , dead or alive !
i know it !
no he lay about fifty yards from it .
i should not wish a smarter assistant , mr holmes and i know very well that he could better himself and earn twice what i am able to give him .
such was the general situation last monday night when the catastrophe occurred .
send him to gaol now , and you make him a gaol bird for life .
never was such a fellow for photography .
did the pale , watchful barrymore know more than he cared to say ?
he looked suspiciously at us now out of yellow shot , bilious eyes , and , without speaking or rising , he waved towards two chairs .
i feel it .
he 's a remarkable man , is young john clay .
well , it 's only a reasonable walk to chatham .
yes , by jove , it 's a danger signal .
i have a theory .
my dearest uncle : i feel that i have brought trouble upon you , and that if i had acted differently this terrible misfortune might never have occurred .
i could only account for it so .
since then she has looked like a woman in a dream , half dazed , and with terror always lurking in her eyes .
we sat down and we drank and we yarned about old times , but the more he drank the less i liked the look on his face .
you have no guarantee that he will not be spirited away again .
then you got hold of the best of the two .
does that suggest anything ?
hardly any , i think .
it is the greatest blow which has befallen me in my career .
you may consider me to be a murderer but i hold that i am just as much an officer of justice as you are .
by the way , i have been reading a short but clear and interesting account of the old building , purchasable at the modest sum of one penny from the local tobacconist .
they had exchanged a few sentences , of which the porter had only distinguished the one word time . then they had hurried off in the manner described .
i tell you again , mr holmes , that you are under some absurd illusion .
he continued , taking a pair of steel handcuffs from a drawer .
the police trial had passed , in which the case of john douglas was referred to a higher court .
i took an impression of his key .
i do n't mind if i do ,
far from doing so , it had , if anything , augmented it .
no doubt it appeared to you to be a mere trampled line of slush , but to my trained eyes every mark upon its surface had a meaning .
it seems to me that all you gentlemen know a great deal more than i do about my own affairs .
surely the game is hardly worth the candle .
what a blind fool i have been !
on examining the premises the body of the unfortunate watchman was found doubled up and thrust into the largest of the safes , where it would not have been discovered until monday morning had it not been for the prompt action of sergeant tuson .
i should like to meet him ,
have you a pair of silent shoes ?
but he is certainly very conceited .
it must have been the case , then , that the man in the waiting room had , for some unknown reason , while i was busy with the other , ascended to the room of my resident patient .
finally he laid down his pipe and sprang to his feet .
simple as it was , there were several most instructive points about it .
my god !
this is more interesting .
it was while i was in the carriage , just as we reached the trainer 's house , that the immense significance of the curried mutton occurred to me .
what have i withheld ?
and in this way he managed that your good man should have no want of drink , and that a ladder should be ready at the moment when your master had gone out .
how did he die ?
the second first class carriage from the front will be reserved for us .
my final shot was , i confess a very long one .
we had breakfasted and were smoking our morning pipe on the day after the remarkable experience which i have recorded , when mr lestrade , of scotland yard , very solemn and impressive , was ushered into our modest sitting room .
well , now , who would have thought it ?
there is one rather obvious line of investigation .
never ,
oh , yes !
he unfolded it and disclosed a golden pince nez , with two broken ends of black silk cord dangling from the end of it .
precisely .
you are a ' good old sport ' ' quite a decent fellow for a german , ' a hard drinking , night club , knock about town , devil may care young fellow .
it was evident to me that he had been very busy of late , for the notes which i had from baker street were few and short , with no comments upon the information which i had supplied and hardly any reference to my mission .
mother was all in his favour from the first and was even fonder of him than i was .
he 's heavily armed .
holmes pulled a large sheet of tissue paper out of his pocket and carefully unfolded it upon his knee .
i leave it with you .
if i had come in here as a journalist , i should have interviewed myself and had two columns in every evening paper .
now , a private pen or ink bottle is seldom allowed to be in such a state , and the combination of the two must be quite rare .
he seized his bicycle , pursued the lad , and in pursuing him met his death .
i can eat nothing ,
he was gone two days before the bust was smashed .
but we have more assured reasons than that for supposing it .
there was hope for all nature bound so long in an iron grip but nowhere was there any hope for the men and women who lived under the yoke of the terror .
may i ask whether the two busts smashed in dr barnicot 's rooms were the exact duplicates of the one which was destroyed in morse hudson 's shop ?
holmes 's quiet day in the country had a singular termination , for he arrived at baker street late in the evening , with a cut lip and a discoloured lump upon his forehead , besides a general air of dissipation which would have made his own person the fitting object of a scotland yard investigation .
i will not tell .
and yet they have missed him up to now !
near the further end a low arched passage branched away from it and led to the chemical laboratory .
when i got to london my pocket was about empty , and i found that i must turn my hand to something for my living .
we are through the line of sentinels .
by the time that their sailing ship reaches savannah the mail boat will have carried this letter , and the cable will have informed the police of savannah that these three gentlemen are badly wanted here upon a charge of murder .
the busts !
good day , dr watson ,
i tried to cheer him up by wire , and he sent me one in reply , imploring me to do all i could .
the two policemen , heavy , good natured men , were taken aback by the extraordinary vehemence with which their friendly advances had been rejected .
my old friend , colonel hayter , who had come under my professional care in afghanistan , had now taken a house near reigate in surrey , and had frequently asked me to come down to him upon a visit .
by a singular and happy chance , we are able to some extent to check what passed along this road during the night in question .
had this lady who appeals to us for help gone to live in winchester , i should never have had a fear for her .
i had a note from my brother this morning in which he sang your praises very loudly .
about one , sir
clair had fainted at the sight of the blood upon the window , and she was escorted home in a cab by the police , as her presence could be of no help to them in their investigations .
this was raving insanity .
to him it may have been an unmitigated relief , but she wept bitterly in her apron .
it was more a feeling of duty a feeling that some good might come from my penetrating to this place .
you dog !
when this was pulled down , the bell in the kitchen must have rung loudly ,
lady brackenstall was no ordinary person .
do n't put it to the ground .
yes , i got it .
even the high pay cannot reconcile me to the discomforts of my situation .
whether it was the weapon which did the deed , or whether it belonged to the dead man , i do not know .
mrs douglas turned , and in an instant her arms were round him .
i will not speak about it just now , but it should make my next report interesting reading .
he caught up everything which would betray him , and he rushed into your bedroom to conceal himself .
i cannot conceive anything which will cover the facts ,
that it is one of the curses of a mind with a turn like mine that i must look at everything with reference to my own special subject .
what a splendid night it is !
sherlock holmes 's answer was an astounding one .
it 's a queer case though , and i knew your taste for such things .
mcmurdo the scowrer , ' that 's what one of our boarders called you yesterday .
do you keep plate in the house , or anything to attract burglars ?
what would you do ?
he is as eager to come as you can be to see him .
someone may have shaken the box and displaced it .
there can be no question that it was your oil lamp which , when it was crushed in the press , set fire to the wooden walls , though no doubt they were too excited in the chase after you to observe it at the time .
poor father has never been strong for years back , but this has broken him down completely .
i think that it is more than probable
it had been ascertained at the shipping offices that browner had left aboard of the may day , and i calculate that she is due in the thames tomorrow night .
it would be to ruin the work of three months .
he was a dreadful person a bully to everyone else , but to me something infinitely worse .
on sending in our cards we were shown into an elegantly appointed drawing room , where we were joined in a few minutes by a rather stout man who received us with much hospitality .
by gar !
did you find your brougham ?
the brute !
then suddenly another sound became audible a very gentle , soothing sound , like that of a small jet of steam escaping continually from a kettle .
yes , i gather there has been violence , and that the body is left for our inspection .
let us follow the return track .
you will drive , no doubt ?
photography is one of my hobbies ,
he broke the seal and glanced over the contents .
yes , i am all that , mr holmes and , in addition , i am the most unfortunate man at this moment in london .
i happen to know what is thought in the highest quarters of your work in this country .
and how did you find him ?
to an end ?
and from a noble client ?
not at all .
the giant was in his shirt sleeves , with chains and seals gleaming athwart his ample waistcoat and a diamond twinkling through the fringe of his bristling beard .
well , mr holmes ?
not to allow your judgment to be biased by personal qualities .
prehistoric man lived thickly on the moor , and as no one in particular has lived there since , we find all his little arrangements exactly as he left them .
you did not know , dr mortimer , that you were followed this morning from my house ?
and yet ,
i will turn the facts over in my mind , mr tregennis , and should anything occur to me i will certainly communicate with you and the vicar .
i think that i will go in and have a word with moran , and perhaps write a little note .
what would he do , then ?
go on , you drunken vagabone ,
sometimes i wonder if she has a guilty memory which haunts her , and sometimes i suspect barrymore of being a domestic tyrant .
from that day , amid all his cordiality , there was always a touch of suspicion in mr trevor 's manner towards me .
and why did she weep so bitterly ?
you did , doctor , but none the less you must come round to my view , for otherwise i shall keep on piling fact upon fact on you until your reason breaks down under them and acknowledges me to be right .
he turned and clattered down the stairs as hard as he could go .
yes , i have noticed that .
it was a wild , tempestuous night , towards the close of november .
he cried , fiercely .
baldwin and cormac were already half drunk , and the liquor had brought out all their ferocity .
we must close in on him rapidly , for he is said to be a desperate fellow .
he is so cunning that i never know when i am safe from him .
it belongs to my girl sally , as was married only this time twelvemonth , which her husband is steward aboard a union boat , and what he 'd say if he come ' ome and found her without her ring is more than i can think , he being short enough at the best o times , but more especially when he has the drink .
that , and a deal more .
it is not for nothing that i have turned myself out of bed at the untimely hour of six .
bodymaster j .
one day when dr somerton was down with a fever a little andaman islander was picked up by a convict gang in the woods .
but i would not have let the young man come to harm .
see here !
yes , i did bang out of the house ,
and now i have to consider the motive of this singular crime .
i do n't think that you have any cause to be uneasy , mrs hudson ,
indeed , sir !
in the dim light of a foggy november day the sick room was a gloomy spot , but it was that gaunt , wasted face staring at me from the bed which sent a chill to my heart .
through all this motley assemblage , threading her way with the skill of an accomplished rider , there galloped lucy ferrier , her fair face flushed with the exercise and her long chestnut hair floating out behind her .
no , i thought over every possible course , and this is the best .
mr heath newton 's the negro .
he can give no explanation of the young man 's last words , ' the professor it was she , ' but imagines that they were the outcome of delirium .
take your hat and come along with us .
it is cabinet size .
the barren scene , the sense of loneliness , and the mystery and urgency of my task all struck a chill into my heart .
it went to my heart to do it , though .
there were several bartenders in their shirt sleeves , hard at work mixing drinks for the loungers who fringed the broad , brass trimmed counter .
his face was almost covered by the clothes and he appeared to be asleep .
the lowest estimate would put the worth of the coronet at double the sum which i have asked .
it is a point which is continually turning up in criminal trials , and which is sometimes of supreme importance as a clue .
there is no woman in all london who loves her husband as i do , and yet if he knew how i have acted how i have been compelled to act he would never forgive me .
perhaps you will have the goodness to look it over and to show us how we can set it right .
i have not traced these checks yet , but i have no doubt that they were banked under that name at some provincial town where oldacre from time to time led a double existence .
it was destined , however , that all my professional caution should be wasted , for next morning the problem obtruded itself upon us in such a way that it was impossible to ignore it , and our country visit took a turn which neither of us could have anticipated .
it shows that the man we are after is not as lonely as i imagined he was , but has friends who are ready to risk something for him .
they had heard nothing during the night , for they are both sound sleepers .
it burned like tinder , and by the time she reached the spot , nothing could be seen but flames .
his secret was a shameful one , and he could not bring himself to divulge it .
what was to happen then ?
tell him for me that i have quite made up my mind , and that it is certain that a dangerous homicidal lunatic , with napoleonic delusions , was in his house last night .
now , if you feel a little more composed , i should be glad if you would sit down in that chair , and tell us very slowly and quietly who you are , and what it is that you want .
sterndale mopped his forehead with his handkerchief .
i had the note which you sent by the express messenger , and i did exactly what you told me .
after all , since we are to be on such terms , mr altamont ,
there were slates and bricks piled up on the roof preparatory to some repairs , and they would have me believe that the wind had toppled over one of these .
if you 'll loose my legs i 'll walk down to it .
beg him , pray him , get him here by any means .
i 'm under oath not to show it , and just as i would n't break my word to you so i would keep it to those who hold my promise .
i saw him glance up at our window as he did so .
there were a thousand lives to save , but it was of only one that i was thinking when i dropped over the wall that night .
there is no use of arguing about it now i tell you that it is so .
the young man seemed interested .
i saw these advertisements about harpooners , and high wages , so i went to the shipping agents , and they sent me here .
there is a dry glitter in his eyes and a firm set of his thin lips , which goes with a positive and possibly a harsh nature .
toby proved to be an ugly , long haired , lop eared creature , half spaniel and half lurcher , brown and white in color , with a very clumsy waddling gait .
next time i came back from sea , i heard of her marriage .
the woman looked at him intently , and ground her heel into his upturned face .
i have seldom seen a more remarkable looking person .
he had ceased to strike and was gazing up at the ventilator when suddenly there broke from the silence of the night the most horrible cry to which i have ever listened .
on the other side of the bushes a shoe was projecting .
sherlock holmes ' quick eye took in my occupation , and he shook his head with a smile as he noticed my questioning glances .
bad business !
therefore it is upon the logic rather than upon the crime that you should dwell .
now , watson ,
but here we have plenty to go on , and there 's no doubt it is the same party in each case .
look , for example , at the queer lot of things which he took from acton 's what was it ?
it was shown that , after dinner on the day of his death , he had played a rubber of whist at the latter club .
the public has already learned those particulars of the crime which came out in the police investigation , but a good deal was suppressed upon that occasion , since the case for the prosecution was so overwhelmingly strong that it was not necessary to bring forward all the facts .
they may rest here on the hook and will be dry presently .
that was the question which we had to answer .
he added when the butler had gone
what is this , then ?
i gathered up some scattered ash from the floor .
the pulses in my temples beat like sledge hammers , and i believe i would have had a fit of some sort if the blood had not gushed from my nose and relieved me .
about what ?
in the mean while , we can do nothing but await results .
where is he now ?
he was very sorry for all that had passed , and he recognized how foolish and how selfish it was that he should imagine that he could hold a beautiful woman like his sister to himself for her whole life .
the name was indeed well known to us as belonging to the senior partner in the second largest private banking concern in the city of london .
i really cannot congratulate you .
i took the obvious course , therefore , of calling upon miss m .
i remember that he remarked what a queer household it was to find in the heart of surrey , and that i agreed with him , though it has proved a good deal queerer than i thought .
good heavens !
there is some deep intrigue going on round that little woman , and it is our duty to see that no one molests her upon that last journey .
for some minutes he peered forth in furtive , stealthy fashion , as one who wishes to be assured that he is unobserved .
watson , i fear that you will find it very slow , but i shall only be away a couple of hours .
any message for me .
the other is impersonating you at the office .
his ingenious mind instantly suggested a way by which the baronet could be done to death , and yet it would be hardly possible to bring home the guilt to the real murderer .
i sat up with sir henry in his rooms until nearly three o clock in the morning , but no sound of any sort did we hear except the chiming clock upon the stairs .
this made me mad , and i caught her arm and tried to pull her through the window .
but those other gentlemen , are they what they pretend to be ?
capital !
i would move ,
as a rule , when i have heard some slight indication of the course of events , i am able to guide myself by the thousands of other similar cases which occur to my memory .
i found out where lieutenant charpentier was , took two officers with me , and arrested him .
i really have other things to engage me .
what did he do ?
the banker 's dressing room was a plainly furnished little chamber , with a grey carpet , a large bureau , and a long mirror .
by the way , about the bird , we were compelled to eat it .
then what has happened to him ?
but we formed ours yesterday , and now it proves to be correct , so you must acknowledge that we have been a little in front of you this time , mr holmes .
i had no difficulty in finding her rooms , which were central and well appointed .
i presume nothing .
dear me !
the others are finns and germans .
i took it up and glanced at it .
this will do ,
i am going through the city first , and we can have some lunch on the way .
a spaniard would write to a spaniard in spanish .
one of the latter knocked off the man 's hat , on which he raised his stick to defend himself and , swinging it over his head , smashed the shop window behind him .
but now the thing was officially confirmed .
is it not possible ,
he walked up to the sideboard , and tearing a piece from the loaf he devoured it voraciously , washing it down with a long draught of water .
i should like to go upstairs and look into the matter .
i thought it was father ,
my father read it , clapped both his hands to his head , and began running round the room in little circles like a man who has been driven out of his senses .
it was i who opened it .
on , on to zion !
he was known in the trade as black peter , and the name was given him , not only on account of his swarthy features and the colour of his huge beard , but for the humours which were the terror of all around him .
menzies , the scotchman , gave a roar of rage at the sight and rushed with an iron spanner at the murderers but was met by two balls in the face which dropped him dead at their very feet .
even now i do not understand how you attained this result .
two great tiger skins thrown athwart it increased the suggestion of eastern luxury , as did a huge hookah which stood upon a mat in the corner .
take him , brother stangerson ,
his reasons for destroying the busts were still unknown , and he refused to answer any questions upon the subject , but the police had discovered that these same busts might very well have been made by his own hands , since he was engaged in this class of work at the establishment of gelder co .
and where was it ?
i find it , however , so transcendently stimulating and clarifying to the mind that its secondary action is a matter of small moment .
it might be thought that as a member , all the doings of the society would be told to him but he was soon to discover that the organization was wider and more complex than the simple lodge .
you have got them !
how much money have you ?
i bought this estate , which chanced to be in the market , and i set myself to do a little good with my money , to make up for the way in which i had earned it .
the whole garden was alive with people , and one fellow raised a view halloa as we emerged from the veranda and followed hard at our heels .
we are told that three men drank from them .
we took the bicycle over with us and showed it at the hotels .
the affair has been most deplorably handled .
he cried , with flashing eyes ,
i heard the sharp snap of a twisted key .
ah , yes ,
then from the table he took a platter heaped with small pieces of charred bone .
you take him into the back room .
most certainly it does .
how could she , a young and timid woman , make her way into such a place and pluck her husband out from among the ruffians who surrounded him ?
old acton , who is one of our county magnates , had his house broken into last monday .
he is sure to be at the laboratory ,
this was found .
i cried .
who is it who profits by it ?
she has spoken about my old family , and our reputation in the county , and our pride in our unsullied honour , and i always felt it was leading to the point , but somehow it turned off before we got there .
through the half open door i heard a high , petulant , penetrating voice .
it was a single track railroad but at every siding and they were numerous long lines of trucks piled with coal and iron ore told of the hidden wealth which had brought a rude population and a bustling life to this most desolate corner of the united states of america .
then i shall certainly come .
once on the high road they made rapid progress .
through the gauze curtain our eyes were all riveted upon the scene within .
i 've heard of you ,
night after night the whole sky was alight with the burning bungalows , and day after day we had small companies of europeans passing through our estate with their wives and children , on their way to agra , where were the nearest troops .
but i would have you to know the whole truth .
there 's the check upon the table .
let us take the little table first .
perhaps you hate me too , now that i 've told you as much ?
i expect to hear before evening that they have spotted her .
even the news brought back by hopkins that he had found the children , and that they had undoubtedly seen a woman exactly corresponding with holmes 's description , and wearing either spectacles or eyeglasses , failed to rouse any sign of keen interest .
effie loves me .
not for the world , ' he cried with a gesture of horror .
this fresh development has shown me that i was completely mistaken .
whatever it might be , it was perfectly clear that there was no possible use in my resisting , and that i could only wait to see what might befall .
i shall try not to miss anything of importance .
there he was , sitting with a newly opened envelope in one hand and five dried orange pips in the outstretched palm of the other one .
i should not sit here smoking with you if i thought that you were a common criminal , you may be sure of that .
petty thefts , wanton assaults , purposeless outrage to the man who held the clue all could be worked into one connected whole .
i glanced at him again , and he seemed to know what i was thinking , for he raised his finger to his lips to tell me to be still .
in spite of his capacity for concealing his emotions , i could easily see that holmes was in a state of suppressed excitement , while i was myself tingling with that half sporting , half intellectual pleasure which i invariably experienced when i associated myself with him in his investigations .
at his advice , on the afternoon of the th we set off together , with the intention of crossing the hills and spending the night at the hamlet of rosenlaui .
this was news to me indeed .
the events in question occurred in the early days of my association with holmes , when we were sharing rooms as bachelors in baker street .
i shall certainly do as you advise .
he besought us to lock the door and to come upon either side of the bed .
she was a widow when i met her first , though quite young only twenty five .
a government messenger had brought it post haste .
two have been fired and two wounds inflicted , so that each bullet can be accounted for .
now , this line is the main road .
it seems to me that i have spoken quite enough about the little that i know .
i could even quote a passage of your letter .
that should let us know before evening whether barrymore is at his post in devonshire or not .
it may cause him to be more cautious , or it may drive him to desperate measures at once .
i have already told you that i can hush up that which others will be bound to publish , and you would really be wiser to take me into your complete confidence .
, at the very moment when these busts were being made .
i thought i might surprise you .
your own little income ,
i think our next scene of operations must be the shipping office of the adelaide southampton line , which stands at the end of pall mall , if i remember right .
he raised his stick but mcmurdo had whipped his pistol out of his pocket .
well , mr mac , it is very good and very clear so far as it goes .
oh , at his new offices .
there is a master hand here .
listen to this : ' be patient .
do you suppose that such a consideration weighs with me of an instant ?
one summer night , a few months after my marriage , i was seated by my own hearth smoking a last pipe and nodding over a novel , for my day 's work had been an exhausting one .
are the eminent order of freemen !
that 's my idea , too ,
of course you can hardly avoid publicity .
now , mr soames at your disposal !
not at all .
it was perfectly easy , therefore , for anyone to get into the garden , but the window was entirely inaccessible , since there was no waterpipe or anything which could help the most active man to climb it .
in the cab , however , she first turned faint , and then burst into a passion of weeping , so sorely had she been tried by the adventures of the night .
and who is the blackmailer ?
but it seemed to me that all the papers were not there .
of course there is only one feasible explanation .
but now observe this other measurement .
no , a child could not be drowned in it .
i am endeavouring to tell you everything , mr holmes , which may have any bearing upon the case , but i beg that you will question me upon any point which i do not make clear .
but at last he made a trip only a little , little trip but it was more than he could afford when i was so close upon him .
well , whoever noticed it , it shows how our gentleman got away .
and now , watson , not another word of the matter until we have a few solid stepping stones on which we may hope to get across to our solution .
i then reflected that since he had certainly been in london some time as we had evidence that he maintained a continual watch over pondicherry lodge he could hardly leave at a moment 's notice , but would need some little time , if it were only a day , to arrange his affairs .
and in my own small way i have also a good many calls upon me .
to carry the art , however , to its highest pitch , it is necessary that the reasoner should be able to utilise all the facts which have come to his knowledge and this in itself implies , as you will readily see , a possession of all knowledge , which , even in these days of free education and encyclopaedias , is a somewhat rare accomplishment .
but she lives in coombe tracey .
a brown overcoat .
another person was involved .
five minutes later we were in the street , walking towards regent 's circus .
for a moment i thought they might have got wet and been burned in the drying .
james 's , evening news , standard , echo , and any others that occur to you .
then he rings again when he has finished , and we take it down from the same chair .
exclaimed holmes ,
we have come from nauvoo , in the state of illinois , where we had founded our temple .
i find it hard enough to tackle facts , holmes , without flying away after theories and fancies .
beyond this i can say nothing , and i would refer you to mr holmes himself if you wanted fuller information .
i knew of their guilt though , and i determined that i should be judge , jury , and executioner all rolled into one .
in vain i begged him to tell me more .
well , watson , what do you think of this new light ?
i guess you 're the same in all places , shoving your advice in when nobody asks for it .
i fell upon him , and as i held him my comrade blew a shrill call upon a whistle .
do not think of revenge , or anything of the sort , at present .
his revolver cracked , and i saw the blood spurt from the front of woodley 's waistcoat .
most certainly .
you have ended by bringing about the death of a noble man and driving his wife to suicide .
the gallows awaits him , and i would do nothing to save him from it .
you see , watson ,
yes , jack , i will come .
good morning , colonel ,
i could swear to it that it was he who addressed me in my bedroom at that very hour .
the end of the islander
i keep no other wines .
well , we do n't seem to have much material to help us .
cried mcginty ,
my own face is a narrow one , and yet i find that i cannot get my eyes into the centre , nor near the centre , of these glasses .
nor is it any better as three words at , ten , ta , unless t .
there is no possibility of a secret door , and the windows are quite thirty feet from the ground .
this central block is made up of the dwelling rooms , with the kitchen behind and our bedroom above .
he turned to his desk and scribbled off several telegrams , which were handed over to the page boy .
a moment later our modest apartment , already so distinguished that morning , was further honoured by the entrance of the most lovely woman in london .
all this is the truth , and if i tell it to you , gentlemen , it is not to amuse you , for you have not done me a very good turn , but it is because i believe the best defence i can make is just to hold back nothing , but let all the world know how badly i have myself been served by major sholto , and how innocent i am of the death of his son .
i picked it up from the carpet .
i had seven different schemes for getting a glimpse of that telegram , but i could hardly hope to succeed the very first time .
probably the photograph we found in his pocket is the man himself , so that he may not knife the wrong person .
very curious , and the story that hangs round it will strike you as being more curious still .
i had a presentiment that you would come this evening .
i understand you to say that your room is on the second floor , that there is no entrance from without , and that from within no one could go up unobserved .
ferrier carried the bag of gold and notes , jefferson hope had the scanty provisions and water , while lucy had a small bundle containing a few of her more valued possessions .
i do n't believe it .
my own idea of the game , at any rate ,
as a medical man , you are aware , watson , that there is no part of the body which varies so much as the human ear .
i think that those seven weeks represented the difference between the mail boat which brought the letter and the sailing vessel which brought the writer .
robbed ?
my friend was standing with an expression of strained intensity upon his face , staring at the railway metals where they curved out of the tunnel .
i hardly follow you ,
i have already made some inquiries at a clerical agency , and they tell me that there was a man of that name in orders , whose career has been a singularly dark one .
he made his escape , and for some reason thought that he could do so more safely on foot than on the bicycle .
no , thank you , sir i breakfasted before i came round .
come , watson , i think that we have more important work elsewhere .
then how could he buy
had he ever one from france ?
i should certainly speak to the police , ' i said .
have you found anything out ?
i will stake it all on the fact that your story is an absolute fabrication .
the foul mouthed fellow at the top .
our course led right across the grounds , in and out among the trenches and pits with which they were scarred and intersected .
you have been brought there to personate someone , and the real person is imprisoned in this chamber .
oh , what an ass i have been !
holmes sent off a short wire and for the rest of the drive lay back in the cab , with his hat tilted over his nose to keep the sun from his face .
the queerest perhaps
how long was it after hearing the shot that you were stopped on the stair by mr barker ?
they banded themselves into a society which should never be dissolved until the work was done .
you can imagine the state of things here when they were roused from their beds by the doctor 's ringing and found me in this condition .
how an english gentleman could behave in such a manner is beyond my comprehension .
they are all seaports .
signor zamba is an invalid , and our new friend castalotte has all power within the firm , which employs more than three hundred men .
so , my dear watson , there 's my report of a failure .
they have the peculiar flattening and thickening which marks the boxing man .
amongst them all there was none so fierce and so dangerous as himself .
it must have whizzed between us at the instant that we fired .
either the body fell from the roof , or a very curious coincidence has occurred .
there i wandered about for many a year , and at last came back to the punjab , where i lived mostly among the natives and picked up a living by the conjuring tricks that i had learned .
if my answer to this is as i hope , you will have a very pretty case to add to your collection , watson ,
now , look at that third name .
he was dead !
but i can .
my child survived .
i must warn you , however , mr melas , that if at any time to night you attempt to raise an alarm or do anything which is against my interests , you will find it a very serious thing .
what bell is it ?
he stood beside me in silence , his candle in his hand .
and new zealand consolidated ?
he throws it out , and would have done the same with the other garments had not he heard the rush of steps below , and only just had time to close the window when the police appeared .
i think that i recognise the symptoms ha !
the road topped a low hill , and there was a great widespread whitewashed building in front of us , spouting fire at every chink and window , while in the garden in front three fire engines were vainly striving to keep the flames under .
i 've taken up the matter , and i will n't lose sight of it .
nothing has been moved .
for a moment we caught a glimpse of the natural man , impulsive , ardent , keenly sensitive .
well , i will n't see him , staples .
they certainly confirm the very high opinion which i had formed of his abilities .
after an hour or so , mr rucastle suddenly remarked that it was time to commence the duties of the day , and that i might change my dress and go to little edward in the nursery .
for god 's sake leave me to myself !
to do this , we must try the simplest means first , and these lie undoubtedly in an advertisement in all the evening papers .
now , watson ,
everything is in order .
one of these is discoloured and worn to some slight extent , but the other is new .
it seldom is in such cases .
when we returned to mrs warren 's rooms , the gloom of a london winter evening had thickened into one gray curtain , a dead monotone of colour , broken only by the sharp yellow squares of the windows and the blurred haloes of the gas lamps .
as it is , i feel that young man 's grip on my throat now , and the father has twisted my wrist round in the effort to get the paper out of my hand .
evidently one has fallen off and been replaced .
if you could get a bag of blasting powder at the front door with a slow match to it
it came from upstairs .
why should i deny it ?
i feel that his blood is on my hands ,
i have every reason to believe that i will succeed in discovering mr hosmer angel .
major sholto was a very particular friend of papa 's ,
if you was here , sir , then who rang the bell ?
it was his talents which had first recommended him for the english mission , the most important mission of all , but since he had taken it over those talents had become more and more manifest to the half dozen people in the world who were really in touch with the truth .
the girl laughed with joy .
in the meantime we shall treat ourselves to a couple of carpet bags , encourage the manufactures of the countries through which we travel , and make our way at our leisure into switzerland , via luxembourg and basle .
yes , and she was the girl who waited in the drawing room , and who may have heard uncle 's remarks about the coronet .
i advertised , and i answered advertisements , but without success .
on following him they found the dead body stretched out upon the grass beside the pool .
i have the cab downstairs .
here he will come presently , and here he will find mahomet singh and myself awaiting him .
half the alphabet !
no doubt many feet have been here since monday night .
you see ,
that 's what i am doing .
his accent became more aberdonian as he lost himself in his argument i 'm asking you to conseedar what it involves if you suppose that this gun was ever brought into the house , and that all these strange things were done by a person from outside .
a sob and a squeeze of his hand was her only answer .
from the open door there reeked a horrible poisonous exhalation which set us gasping and coughing .
gasped john ferrier .
they are important , you understand , without being interesting .
wait a bit , though !
have you lost any documents before ?
i tell you that i would give one of the provinces of my kingdom to have that photograph .
by the way , what do you give him ?
surely this is not your husband 's writing , madam .
young baskerville stared eagerly out of the window and cried aloud with delight as he recognized the familiar features of the devon scenery .
let every maiden of the true faith marry one of the elect for if she wed a gentile , she commits a grievous sin .
how do you know this ?
i am afraid ,
b was a passage between two large shops , which led to a winding stone stair , from which there were many flats , let as offices to companies or professional men .
let us presume , for argument 's sake , that the document was taken by the maid or by the valet
you were dwelling upon the sadness and horror and useless waste of life .
in the meantime spare no pains , mr detective !
he inclosed a copy of it , which is here reproduced :
on referring to my notes i see that it was upon the th of april that i received a telegram from lyons which informed me that holmes was lying ill in the hotel dulong .
i have just been there , and i have taken it out , and i have got it in this gladstone bag .
you have an indication , you see , of a long body with very short legs attached to it .
there will be no more murders ,
exactly .
tell me , professor coram ,
though young , his long back was already bowed , and he walked with a forward thrust of his head and a general air of peering benevolence .
after leaving the house he discovered his loss and hurried back , but found the police already in possession , owing to his own folly in leaving the candle burning .
then he flung open the window , and putting his knife through the crack in the shutters , he thrust the bar up and swung them open .
and now , mr holmes , i come at last to the special thing which has caused me to ask your advice to day .
does your brother know , then , of what you will do ?
lestrade grabbed it up and stared at it with mystified eyes .
that was why he telegraphed to me and i returned .
certainly not .
well , then , here on this page are the country folk , and the numbers after their names are where their accounts are in the big ledger .
there was none , however , which appealed to me like this tragedy of ronald adair .
even now she would not own defeat .
in a vague way , yes .
a great step had been gained by the discovery of the address of the house at which he had boarded a result which was entirely due to the acuteness and energy of mr gregson of scotland yard .
bear that in mind .
what do you think , miss holder ?
year passed into year , his black hair turned grizzled , but still he wandered on , a human bloodhound , with his mind wholly set upon the one object upon which he had devoted his life .
he had been there since one o'clock .
but no chain is stronger than its weakest link .
he observed when von bork had stopped from pure exhaustion .
finally they withdrew , closing the window after them .
the magistrate could not possibly , on the evidence , have held them for a higher court .
it was a boy of five who had seen his father murdered .
it is he , then , who is our enemy it is he who dogged us in london ?
this case of yours , mr phelps , is certainly one of the darkest which i have ever investigated .
he opened the case , and taking out the diadem he laid it upon the table .
frequently , sir
the man was apprehended , it appears , in the rooms of a certain mr sherlock holmes , who has himself , as an amateur , shown some talent in the detective line , and who , with such instructors , may hope in time to attain to some degree of their skill .
i slept at baker street that night , and we were engaged upon our toast and coffee in the morning when the king of bohemia rushed into the room .
watson , we have done all we can here .
this , of course , took the trail straight up to me .
i narrated briefly what had occurred since i had seen her last , holmes 's new method of search , the discovery of the aurora , the appearance of athelney jones , our expedition in the evening , and the wild chase down the thames .
he stepped swiftly forward , seized the poker , and bent it into a curve with his huge brown hands .
this week is their week of destiny .
here , you !
i was admiring your fuller 's earth , ' said i ' i think that i should be better able to advise you as to your machine if i knew what the exact purpose was for which it was used .
well , there is nothing very instructive in all this .
she cannot wait on the public road at this hour .
with a northerly breeze it lies placid and sheltered , inviting the storm tossed craft to tack into it for rest and protection .
two months had gone by , and the case had to some extent passed from our minds .
i understood that you were writing a report of this case ,
i will , my dear watson , i will .
how did you do it ?
i did n't think you would have taken advantage of it , sir henry indeed i did n't .
in the whirl of our incessant activity , it has often been difficult for me , as the reader has probably observed , to round off my narratives , and to give those final details which the curious might expect .
in silence we again drove for an interminable distance with the windows raised , until at last , just after midnight , the carriage pulled up .
rooms have been reserved for you at the brambletye hotel , so we can all walk down to the village together .
have they thought of looking outside the house ?
his brother mycroft was sitting smoking in the arm chair .
there could be no doubt about the beetling forehead , the sunken animal eyes .
and this not so much for the sake of his reputation for , indeed , it was when he was at his wits ' end that his energy and his versatility were most admirable but because where he failed it happened too often that no one else succeeded , and that the tale was left forever without a conclusion .
i waited , therefore , in silence , to see what it was that they wanted from me .
lying across his chest was a curious weapon , a shotgun with the barrel sawed off a foot in front of the triggers .
ah , i have often marvelled at it myself .
the a means that it is addressed to a woman .
at the wedding breakfast .
i could understand , as i saw the fury and the passion of the man , that it was no groundless or unnatural terror which had possessed major sholto when he first learned that the injured convict was upon his track .
his boots , too , might be told from their traces .
i have a slight headache and this room is deliciously cool and soothing .
she is my niece but when my brother died five years ago and left her alone in the world i adopted her , and have looked upon her ever since as my daughter .
you see , she fell on it and it lies on a polished floor with nothing to keep it in place .
for this reason i am not at the present moment telling you all that is in my mind .
john ferrier felt a different man now that he realized that he had a devoted ally .
of what day ?
for an instant the wrinkles were smoothed away , the nose drew away from the chin , the lower lip ceased to protrude and the mouth to mumble , the dull eyes regained their fire , the drooping figure expanded .
i knows all about it .
you 're standing out in this deal , councillor mcginty ,
we had ascended the kitchen stair and entered the suite of rooms upon the first floor .
and the woman 's name ?
he had come to new york to avoid the italian police , and he had already planted a branch of this dreadful society in his new home .
we could not doubt that justice , if belated , had come at last .
do you think he expects to make a success of it ?
the numerous gas lamps served only to show more clearly a long line of wooden houses , each with its veranda facing the street , unkempt and dirty .
in an instant beppo , a skilful workman , made a small hole in the wet plaster , dropped in the pearl , and with a few touches covered over the aperture once more .
thaddeus sholto looked about him in a perplexed and helpless manner .
he won her with his title and his money and his false london ways .
this he opened and made a very careful examination of the sill with his powerful magnifying lens .
dear me , hopkins !
oh , fresh and glossy .
he had risen out of his drug created dreams and was hot upon the scent of some new problem .
your own opinion is , then , that some unforeseen catastrophe has occurred to him ?
you are queer , if i must say it without offense .
that all the queen 's horses and all the queen 's men cannot avail in this matter .
we loitered the morning away in the garden .
if he has had no visitors , that prompting must have come in letters hence i try to find out who were his correspondents .
i have no sympathy with these childish games .
followed !
cried the crowd of mormons , and the words rippled down the long caravan , passing from mouth to mouth until they died away in a dull murmur in the far distance .
something was moving in the shadow of the tool house .
old trevor was evidently a man of some wealth and consideration , a j .
i stood paralyzed , with the little box in my hand .
have you never heard of the league of the red headed men ?
i have myself seen this old man cross the grimpen mire by the path which stapleton had marked out .
that is martha , the only servant i have left .
and your mother is alive ?
we agreed to conceal our loot in a safe place until the country should be at peace again , and then to divide it equally among ourselves .
what do you intend to do about mawson 's ?
might i beg that you will break it off .
he took a step backward , cocked his head on one side , and gazed at my hair until i felt quite bashful .
now there is one thing that i want to impress upon you before i go any further , mr holmes .
the principal difficulty in your case ,
surely we have a case .
she had therefore taken her to the bedroom , and endeavoured to soothe her .
they were all five arrested , but the evidence against them was by no means conclusive .
he drew up his chair very close to mine and began to stare at me again with the same questioning and thoughtful look .
the first is the making of pycroft write a declaration by which he entered the service of this preposterous company .
he cried .
detection is , or ought to be , an exact science , and should be treated in the same cold and unemotional manner .
aided by this chart , the officers or one of them gets the treasure and brings it to england , leaving , we will suppose , some condition under which he received it unfulfilled .
i do n't mean to deny that the evidence is in some ways very strongly in favour of your theory ,
well , i 'm very glad to see that you have got the rascal .
now , watson ,
as i gave a last hurried glance around , i saw a thin line of yellow light between two of the boards , which broadened and broadened as a small panel was pushed backward .
but our expedition of to night will solve them all .
i am off , lucy ,
i am bound to say that everything which you have said agrees very closely with the facts as they have come to our notice .
a very commonplace little murder ,
sherlock holmes was well known to the force , and the two constables at the door saluted him .
starving .
let us try , watson , you and i , if we can get behind the lie and reconstruct the truth .
the fresh beauty of the following morning did something to efface from our minds the grim and gray impression which had been left upon both of us by our first experience of baskerville hall .
for a few moments mcmurdo and the girl stood in silence .
he wished to be called at nine .
at last , as midnight approached and the street gradually cleared , he paced up and down the room in uncontrollable agitation .
can you give me his name and address ?
a pin , a cork , and a card , and we add him to the baker street collection !
that 's what he says of us .
over the rocks , in the crevice of which the candle burned , there was thrust out an evil yellow face , a terrible animal face , all seamed and scored with vile passions .
he prowled about with this equipment himself , but it was a poor show of plants which he would bring back of an evening .
he beckoned to me and then began walking into the park .
we lashed his ankles with cord , and rose breathless from the struggle .
we thought that we should like to hear it all from your own lips ,
they cried .
she 's lucy ferrier from this day on .
as i drove , i could see old john ferrier and sweet lucy looking at me out of the darkness and smiling at me , just as plain as i see you all in this room .
even the most insignificant problem would be welcome in these stagnant days .
no , an arrest is inadmissible .
what he will divulge i cannot tell , but i have no doubt that your grace could make him understand that it is to his interest to be silent .
no , sir , we could find no pipe .
i conjure you by everything you hold dear to answer a few questions .
that is all i can gather .
my god !
what do you suppose was above the murdered man ?
she shall have a month to choose ,
mr rucastle seemed to be a very kind , good natured man .
you never were in it ?
it is with a heavy heart that i take up my pen to write these the last words in which i shall ever record the singular gifts by which my friend mr sherlock holmes was distinguished .
so , you 're one of those damned touts !
cried our client ,
but incredulity and indifference were evidently my strongest cards .
i thought of holmes tossing upon his bed of sickness and counting the minutes , perhaps , until i could bring help to him .
on the table in the window were several shreds from a pencil which had been sharpened .
you have condoned a felony , and you have aided the escape of a murderer , for i cannot doubt that any money which was taken by james wilder to aid his accomplice in his flight came from your grace 's purse .
across his lap lay the short stock with the long lash which we had noticed during the day .
i 've been cooped up two days , and i 've spent the daylight hours as much daylight as i could get in that rat trap in putting the thing into words .
well , well , it is surely not quite so bad as that .
i get in the dumps at times , and do n't open my mouth for days on end .
they have treated me shamefully shamefully .
the string is exceedingly interesting ,
did he ask what ailed me ?
it gives me the impression of a secret society of some sort the same with his badge upon the forearm .
mrs st .
it has , however , one obvious disadvantage .
his hand when he wrote hurriedly .
lady st .
the blind was down , and a strong light was burning in the room .
he will show them when to act and where .
only that he will give us every detail when we meet .
his dashing manner and fearlessness of speech made him a favourite with them all while the rapid and scientific way in which he polished off his antagonist in an all in bar room scrap earned the respect of that rough community .
no doubt , however , you had drawn your own conclusions , gregson , before you permitted this .
as desborough , their horse , was second in the betting , they had an interest in the disappearance of the favorite .
the english law is in the main a just law .
we continued our systematic survey of the edge of the sodden portion of the moor , and soon our perseverance was gloriously rewarded .
i made for the boat , and in an hour we were well out at sea .
i shall be back in an hour .
i am not convinced that anyone did take it .
i think that i can help you to pass an hour in an interesting and profitable manner ,
there was the sharp pinnacle of granite still cutting the lower edge of the moon , but its peak bore no trace of that silent and motionless figure .
but what is the use of a cipher message without the cipher ?
there was no sign of him .
but why ?
there are the numbers up ,
you would have wished to tell me something , or in your kindness you would have brought me out some comfort or other , and so an unnecessary risk would be run .
yes , that is the crown .
of course you know the legend of the fiend dog which haunts the family ?
holmes turned away , and stooped suddenly to the floor .
i fancy i must have made a scene .
oh , yes !
plead with him , watson .
he is not a bad fellow , and i should not like to do anything which would injure him professionally .
why on earth , then , should any criminal send her the proofs of his guilt , especially as , unless she is a most consummate actress , she understands quite as little of the matter as we do ?
phelps raised the cover , and as he did so he uttered a scream , and sat there staring with a face as white as the plate upon which he looked .
you perceive our difficulties , watson ?
if your heart is as big as your body , and your soul as fine as your face , then i 'd ask for nothing better ,
the get up was inimitable .
how about straker 's knife ?
well , you know father did n't like anything of the sort .
on the contrary , i have been to devonshire .
on the one hand the compositors and pressmen were forced to admit that the light was uncertain , that they were themselves much perturbed , and that it was difficult for them to swear to the identity of the assailants although they believed that the accused were among them .
i should strongly recommend you to make your preparations for your match without reference to this young gentleman .
the community is certainly the gainer , and no one the loser , save the poor out of work specialist , whose occupation has gone .
my colleague , dr watson , could tell you that we are very busy at present .
cried holmes .
then he stopped , and with a violent effort he resumed a cold , rigid calmness , which was , perhaps , more suggestive of danger than his hot headed outburst .
number thirteen is ' there , ' which is much more promising .
let the matter drop and say no more .
we have been talking it over , my friend here and i , and we have come to the conclusion that this secret of yours is hardly a government matter , after all , but is a private concern of your own , which of course you have the power of disposing of as you think best .
government employ .
my dear mycroft , the brother 's life is more valuable than the sister 's story .
it was not until lestrade succeeded in getting his hand inside his neckcloth and half strangling him that we made him realize that his struggles were of no avail and even then we felt no security until we had pinioned his feet as well as his hands .
i seem to see dimly what you are hinting at .
and your name is ?
it is one of those cases where the art of the reasoner should be used rather for the sifting of details than for the acquiring of fresh evidence .
on may st the boy arrived , that being the beginning of the summer term .
let us now see the letter .
straker had led out the horse to a hollow where his light would be invisible .
inspector forrester , sir ,
man , watson , man .
in its cold light i saw beyond the trees a broken fringe of rocks , and the long , low curve of the melancholy moor .
many were the cries of astonishment and of commiseration which arose from them when they perceived the youth of one of the strangers and the destitution of the other .
then how is it that you did not go ?
we are moving in high life , watson , crackling paper , ' e .
a card was lying on the hall table , and the butler whispered something to his master , who turned to us with agitation in every heavy feature .
she would then be removed to his shed or yard , and so be effectually concealed , while at the same time i could have her at a few hours ' notice .
it might be his portrait .
you have attempted to tinge it with romanticism , which produces much the same effect as if you worked a love story or an elopement into the fifth proposition of euclid .
which would have been never .
i will follow you when i am dressed , for i may be of some use at the station .
lestrade knew my friend too well to disregard his words .
coffin notices hung outside his door had not weakened his resolution , and so in a free , civilized country he found himself condemned to death .
there will be no difficulties for you or your baggage .
for god 's sake put such an idea out of your mind ,
now , you remark in this note of yours , mr windibank , that in every case there is some little slurring over of the ' e , ' and a slight defect in the tail of the ' r .
only once , some years ago .
but what could he have to do with this old family custom of ours , and what does this rigmarole mean ?
but first i had the unpleasant duty of breaking the news to barrymore and his wife .
at blackwall we could not have been more than two hundred and fifty .
the two women told their story clearly enough .
here , at one side of this wilderness , is holdernesse hall , ten miles by road , but only six across the moor .
never have i seen such a change as had been brought about in silas brown in that short time .
steadily we drew in upon them , yard by yard .
no or , let me see why , yes .
he has sold out and left the district .
what was that ?
i ran into the other room , but it was equally deserted .
and my son ?
this is a man that would stick at nothing .
mycroft took snuff from a tortoise shell box , and brushed away the wandering grains from his coat front with a large , red silk handkerchief .
as long as i have my trousers i have a hip pocket , and as long as i have my hip pocket i have something in it .
now i must kick off my boots and stockings .
in a few short sentences he explained to the inspector the facts about the letter and the cipher .
he mentioned his name .
there 's a ' to let ' card in that window .
without a word ?
in the latter , as may be remembered , sherlock holmes was able , by winding up the dead man 's watch , to prove that it had been wound up two hours before , and that therefore the deceased had gone to bed within that time a deduction which was of the greatest importance in clearing up the case .
column !
i could not reach the place by at least three inches from which i infer that he is at least three inches a bigger man than i .
the others went in .
i began .
i told you in london , watson , and i tell you now again , that we have never had a foeman more worthy of our steel .
he shrugged his shoulders .
ah , if i could give it a name it might go a long way towards solving the case .
i sat down upon a keg in the corner and thought the whole matter carefully over .
and was the daughter of augusto barelli , who was the chief lawyer and once the deputy of that part .
here is herr heidegger , sure enough !
as the old man stood there he saw something coming across the moor , something which terrified him so that he lost his wits and ran and ran until he died of sheer horror and exhaustion .
if i shot the man he had his shot at me , and there 's no murder in that .
i do n't stand for that , mister , but there 's a stool pigeon or a cross somewhere , and it 's up to you to find out where it is .
but until she speaks , i can say nothing .
he lost not an hour in breaking entirely with the murderer .
fortunately , it has not come out .
of course , it is a possible supposition that the thief has had a sudden illness
a bicycle , certainly , but not the bicycle ,
you have not been here before last night ?
the sending of this letter was suggested to you by stapleton ?
it is a short account of the facts elicited at the death of sir charles baskerville which occurred a few days before that date .
i 'll wager he learns more about you than you about him .
you say that before sir charles baskerville 's death several people saw this apparition upon the moor ?
there are some very singular points here ,
wait , young man , and you will learn for yourself .
i cared nothing for the law , nothing for the gallows .
i have seen the police .
this may save us a visit to brixton road ,
it chanced that on the same evening mcmurdo had another more pressing interview which urged him in the same direction .
turning to me ,
you may walk to the cab , and i shall be with you presently .
he cried .
but why ?
let me bring sir jasper meek or penrose fisher , or any of the best men in london .
as to his character , he was reliable on duty , but a wild , desperate fellow off the deck of his ship hot headed , excitable , but loyal , honest , and kind hearted .
the question which confronted me was to find out how stangerson had been employed between .
how does all that fit into your theory ?
you see , but you do not observe .
a long , sloping hillside , dotted with gray limestone boulders , stretched behind us .
why , it means that the writer was going to put the female name rachel , but was disturbed before he or she had time to finish .
i arrest you for the wilful murder of mr jonas oldacre , of lower norwood .
three of them are receipted hay dealers ' accounts .
perhaps we 'd better go in at once , for i know how impatient he is .
no harm shall come to you , ettie nor to your father either .
though unmusical , german is the most expressive of all languages ,
she had begun to tell him of what had happened , when the stranger came up again .
well , elsie learned some of our ways , but she could n't stand the business , and she had a bit of honest money of her own , so she gave us all the slip and got away to london .
another fact , which had struck major murphy and three out of five of the other officers with whom i conversed , was the singular sort of depression which came upon him at times .
it was an ideal spring day , a light blue sky , flecked with little fleecy white clouds drifting across from west to east .
was he also out in that deluged the unseen watcher , the man of darkness ?
if it were one which would also admit of the mysterious note with its very curious phraseology , why , then it would be worth accepting as a temporary hypothesis .
mr blessington seemed more excited over the matter than i should have thought possible , though of course it was enough to disturb anybody 's peace of mind .
a precious stone .
he swears that the shadow of a man 's head turned sideways was clearly visible on the blind , and that this shadow was certainly not that of peter carey , whom he knew well .
it was evident that he shared our host 's liking for the fresh alexandrian cigarettes .
what is the latest news of the ruffian ?
ted baldwin looked at mcmurdo with eyes which showed that he had not forgotten nor forgiven .
some of the men were recognized , and there is hope that a conviction may be obtained .
also because they have always their own men to swear that the accused one was far from the scene of the crime .
no sound was heard from the room until eleven twenty , the hour of the return of lady maynooth and her daughter .
oh , never mind about that , mr wilson !
yes , i think that we may safely deduce a cab .
of these he took five and thrust them into an envelope .
you may have read of the remarkable explorations of a norwegian named sigerson , but i am sure that it never occurred to you that you were receiving news of your friend .
oh , well of course , if you and father have arranged it all , there 's no more to be said ,
i have not heard him laugh often , and it has always boded ill to somebody .
this last statement appeared to me to be so startling , that i could hardly believe that he was in his sober senses .
indeed , i should have thought a little more .
it was pale and exultant , his eyes shining brightly in the moonlight .
i slipped out of bed , all palpitating with fear , and peeped round the corner of my dressing room door .
with a few grateful words to holmes she bade us both good night and bustled off upon her way .
i have given you the chance .
ah , and what did you gather from this allusion to a band a speckled band ?
fancy that he suspected something when drebber failed to put in an appearance .
however , she would have it so , and it was done .
just see how it glints and sparkles .
it was locked on the inside , however , and by a broad and powerful bolt , as we could see when we set our lamp up against it .
the approach to the spot at which the tragedy occurred is down a narrow , winding , country lane .
i confess ,
i would sooner face a martini bullet , myself .
no mention of that local hunt , watson ,
it was nine o'clock at night upon the second of august the most terrible august in the history of the world .
my first days in this village were devoted to a series of walks in which in the intervals of my botanical researches i made a reconnaissance of all the large houses and an examination of the family history of the occupants .
the servants had left the kitchen .
again holmes flattened out the paper upon his unused plate .
at the farther end was a small brazier of burning charcoal , beside which on a three legged wooden stool there sat a tall , thin old man , with his jaw resting upon his two fists , and his elbows upon his knees , staring into the fire .
glancing at holmes , i saw his face turn rigid , and he leaned forward in intense excitement .
and you have no doubt that it is your husband 's hand , madam ?
he would certainly have been hung had this test been in existence .
from within came the clanking of the printing press .
there is a friend of mine here , mr isa whitney , and i wish to speak with him .
i cried ,
oh , that was it , was it ?
if i have to call in the aid of the police you will find how seriously you are compromised .
ah , yes , watson severely practical , as usual !
then the door opened , and mcmurdo appeared , his finger upon his lip .
we met the dog cart on the road .
oh , this villain !
house , land , and dollars must go together .
in two months you shall see me .
you are a good fellow ,
which is it you want , then ?
he was deadly pale and terribly emaciated , with the protruding , brilliant eyes of a man whose spirit was greater than his strength .
they were americans , all right .
kindly walk clear of the path .
a retired army surgeon .
it means murder ,
she looked again , but there was no sound or movement .
i learned that your object was to invite mr sherlock holmes to undertake the conduct of this case .
it is just possible , however , that that also may not be wanting in this new investigation .
you know now what james barclay was capable of .
my dread is , however , that in your eyes and in the eyes of others he may appear to be compromised .
better far that your bones should bleach in this wilderness than that you should prove to be that little speck of decay which in time corrupts the whole fruit .
let me know when you have settled which it is to be ,
the sewing machine , of the hand type , leaves a similar mark , but only on the left arm , and on the side of it farthest from the thumb , instead of being right across the broadest part , as this was .
holmes chuckled to himself .
the first was at harker ' s .
that 's peter , the groom ,
a moment later , our old friend lestrade appeared in the doorway .
just hold a match , watson .
witness : it conveyed no meaning to me .
it has always bulked rather large in my estimate of the case .
at a few minutes after nine the maid , edith baxter , carried down to the stables his supper , which consisted of a dish of curried mutton .
you may as well face the matter , you have been caught in the act , and no confession could make your guilt more heinous .
in that case it is clearly our duty , in the interests of justice , to take his statement ,
i could see from holmes 's rigid face that he was vibrating with inward excitement .
in return you will spend the time in telling me frankly the real meaning of this extraordinary affair .
as for myself , i was silent , for the dull weather and the melancholy business upon which we were engaged , depressed my spirits .
not now , watson , not now .
i am convinced that these marks were left by the man who rifled the papers .
hudson has told all .
he kept repeating .
holmes and i followed them down the lane , and my friend plucked at my sleeve as we came out .
the whole force of the state is at your back if you should need it .
but not , if i may say so , quite good enough !
the door must come down ,
by jove !
a key turned in a lock , and as he passed in there was a curious scuffling noise from within .
the facts , therefore , seem to bear out the theory of a poison which worked by combustion .
he sprang to his feet with all his old energy .
please arrange your thoughts and let me know , in their due sequence , exactly what those events are which have sent you out unbrushed and unkempt , with dress boots and waistcoat buttoned awry , in search of advice and assistance .
there is a little nut for you to crack , master holmes .
when any of these nondescript individuals put in an appearance , sherlock holmes used to beg for the use of the sitting room , and i would retire to my bed room .
from the time that he left his brother 's room he was never out of sight of some one or other .
i cannot doubt that stapleton recruited his waning resources in this fashion , and that for years he has been a desperate and dangerous man .
evidently , therefore , alec cunningham had lied when he said that the two men were struggling when the shot was fired .
the cigarettes will show me .
he proved to be a blackguard and deserted her .
there was some little delay in finding it five minutes , let us say and then i returned .
my eyes have been trained to examine faces and not their trimmings .
i know i ought to have spoken to lord st .
hopkins looked surprised .
he had not the cavalry stride , yet he wore his hat on one side , as is shown by the lighter skin of that side of his brow .
in his view he should himself have been heir of all my estates , and he deeply resented those social laws which made it impossible .
he knows that i am his superior , and acknowledges it to me but he would cut his tongue out before he would own it to any third person .
our client smoothed down his unbrushed hair and felt his unshaven chin .
this morning it was gone .
have you your check book ?
i remonstrated .
on the contrary , it seemed rather a piquant thing to us to chevy him about the playground and hit him over the shins with a wicket .
thank you .
i must see this letter .
let me give you a short sketch of what i have done , with some indication of what we are about to do .
as i have but four wives and brother drebber here has seven , it appears to me that my claim is the stronger one .
very likely not .
it is possible that our inquiry may but confirm his guilt but , in any case , we have a line of investigation which has been missed by the police , and which a singular chance has placed in our hands .
yet its distance from the road made it of less consequence .
above all , why should the second man write up the german word rache before decamping ?
he was a very tall , thin man , with a long nose like a beak , which jutted out between two keen , gray eyes , set closely together and sparkling brightly from behind a pair of gold rimmed glasses .
already our friend 's eyelids shivered and he made a feeble effort to move .
a flower bed extended up to the study window , and we all broke into an exclamation as we approached it .
only once did mcmurdo see him , a sly , little gray haired rat of a man , with a slinking gait and a sidelong glance which was charged with malice .
the two castaways , john ferrier and the little girl who had shared his fortunes and had been adopted as his daughter , accompanied the mormons to the end of their great pilgrimage .
there is nothing more to be learned here .
when i add that he possesses a large and very blunt knife , you have an additional aid .
would you have the kindness to let me have an opinion upon the character or habits of the late owner ?
jim came down here to see me once .
yes , sir , a cipher telegram has been despatched .
of course , that is only just for the time .
he had had one of those violent strains of the ankle which leave a man helpless .
why were you so scared of me ?
she just lay across the arm of the chair with that look on her face .
yet you saw for yourself .
i rose , and , making my excuses , escaped from the house .
why should he take the horse out of the stable ?
i find that young neligan arrived at the brambletye hotel on the very day of the crime .
in fact , in the whole of that floor there was no one to be found save a crippled wretch of hideous aspect , who , it seems , made his home there .
the other clothes would have followed , but at that moment there was a rush of constables up the stair , and a few minutes after i found , rather , i confess , to my relief , that instead of being identified as mr neville st .
whatever you may choose to say will go no further .
baskerville hall , october th .
what do you propose now , mr holmes ?
i am glad to hear you say so ,
at first he was very eager to come , but on second thoughts it seemed to both of us that if i went alone the results might be better .
he was waiting on the platform when we stepped out , and we could see in the light of the station lamps that he was very pale , and quivering with agitation .
for example , i began by stating that your brother was careless .
do n't , jim , do n't !
it was in real truth our only hope .
it was thought that she could hardly live a few hours , but it would be a great consolation to her to see an english doctor , and , if i would only return , etc .
it had darkened since i left , and now i could only see here and there the glistening of moisture upon the black walls , and far away down at the end of the shaft the gleam of the broken water .
i guess you are right .
among these men there was a stringent code of honour , any infringement of which was punished by death .
surely you will stay and have some dinner ?
at present i cannot spare energy and nerve force for digestion ,
they will be upon our track by this time ,
you had it down to a fine thing .
i shall certainly go down to the office here and register a complaint .
when i pay good money for a good article there should be an end of the business but it 's ' where are the geese ?
i spent three days in wiring to dundee , and at the end of that time i had ascertained the names of the crew of the sea unicorn in .
what 's up , then ?
he little knew that the woman who faced him at every meal was the woman whose husband he had hurried at an hour 's notice into eternity .
when once the law is evoked it cannot be stayed again , and this is just one of those cases where , for the credit of the college , it is most essential to avoid scandal .
for three years i have kept her existence a secret from you , but i heard from the nurse , and i knew that all was well with her .
where was mr staunton when he received it ?
so wily was he that he had not trusted himself upon foot , but he had availed himself of a cab so that he could loiter behind or dash past them and so escape their notice .
it was a hundred times more difficult than getting up .
as i was already in debt to my tradesmen , the advance was a great convenience , and yet there was something unnatural about the whole transaction which made me wish to know a little more before i quite committed myself .
the king of scandinavia .
there are several people in the neighbourhood , however , and among them miss turner , the daughter of the neighbouring landowner , who believe in his innocence , and who have retained lestrade , whom you may recollect in connection with the study in scarlet , to work out the case in his interest .
well , that 's enough ,
he entered the house , but it was some little time before he came upstairs .
no harm would have been done had it not been that , as he passed your door , he perceived the key which had been left by the carelessness of your servant .
a square balustraded gallery ran round the top of the old hall , approached by a double stair .
the baronet caught my sleeve and his face glimmered white through the darkness .
holmes ,
every time that a knock came to the door , or a sharp step passed in the street , i imagined that it was either holmes returning or an answer to his advertisement .
well , let us hope so .
i think that i have deserved better at your hands , holmes .
i was not sure whether he had seen what was only too obvious from my position , that the door of the safe was imperfectly closed , and that milverton might at any moment observe it .
i 'll bid you good bye ,
how have the years used you ?
she had thrown them in there at the first opportunity to remove the last trace of her crime .
after i heard your view i made it my business to see him .
i have a copy of the questions and answers here if you care to run your eye over them .
two sikh troopers were placed under my command , and i was instructed if anything went wrong to fire my musket , when i might rely upon help coming at once from the central guard .
she hesitated and looked down .
you may conceivably have overlooked it .
not a word more could i draw from him until we were back at the trainer 's house .
yes , his head was knocked in with his own poker .
there were two more soldiers at the door of the state room , and their muskets seemed not to be loaded , for they never fired upon us , and they were shot while trying to fix their bayonets .
i picked this out unburned from the back of it .
holmes knocked without receiving any answer , and then tried to turn the handle and force it open .
then he broke into a low laugh and put his lips to my ear .
just listen with all your ears .
when i found that the leading international agent , who had just left london , lived in a row of houses which abutted upon the underground , i was so pleased that you were a little astonished at my sudden frivolity .
groaned the prisoner .
both you and the coroner have been at some pains ,
there was one singular exception , however , for he had a single room , a lumber room up among the attics , which was invariably locked , and which he would never permit either me or anyone else to enter .
by no means .
i have no idea .
what can be the matter , then ?
as i turned back , my eye caught the pellet of paper which the prisoner had tossed upon the table .
i am sorry that i have not been able to bring your majesty 's business to a more successful conclusion .
as we had expected , the telegram was soon followed by its sender , and the card of mr cyril overton , trinity college , cambridge , announced the arrival of an enormous young man , sixteen stone of solid bone and muscle , who spanned the doorway with his broad shoulders , and looked from one of us to the other with a comely face which was haggard with anxiety .
that was too dangerous .
elsie had sunk down upon the floor , and we were face to face .
his pension was due .
if so , is it in her house in paris ?
he was wrapped in some sort of cloak which came across the lower part of his face .
his household consisted of his wife , his daughter , aged twenty , and two female servants .
there was no powder marking either upon his dressing gown or on his hands .
our friend , sir henry , and the lady had halted on the path and were standing deeply absorbed in their conversation , when i was suddenly aware that i was not the only witness of their interview .
i understand now , what i should never have forgotten , that i am the pupil and you are the master .
then , crouching down , he rested the end of the barrel upon the ledge of the open window , and i saw his long moustache droop over the stock and his eye gleam as it peered along the sights .
your advice will be altogether invaluable to me .
besides , it is a useless expense , for how could you possibly find this hosmer angel ?
if we hurry , we might be in time for the second act .
the ceremony , as shortly announced in the papers of yesterday , occurred on the previous morning but it is only now that it has been possible to confirm the strange rumours which have been so persistently floating about .
looking through the window i could see her walking feebly along the other side , while her pursuer dogged her some little distance behind .
petersburg , and you have always escaped me .
i trust that there is nothing of consequence which i have overlooked ?
he cried .
and yet the lady 's story was complete , the maid 's corroboration was sufficient , the detail was fairly exact .
i heard the striking of a match .
well , soames , i think we have cleared your little problem up , and our breakfast awaits us at home .
he would follow barrymore and see what he did .
he might have thrown a dozen if he had but left my bonny bird alone .
i assure you that it will n't help you .
with all respect to you , eminent bodymaster , i think it may matter very much to us .
while she was walking in this way down swandam lane , she suddenly heard an ejaculation or cry , and was struck cold to see her husband looking down at her and , as it seemed to her , beckoning to her from a second floor window .
it ran ,
nothing has more individuality , save perhaps watches and bootlaces .
it might not even now be too late to overtake him , so i set off at once in the direction of merripit house .
you will admit , watson , that these facts are very suggestive .
please , sir ,
on the land side our surroundings were as sombre as on the sea .
you have planned it all very neatly , whether they are the right men or not ,
the seamen had hauled the fore yard aback during the rising , but now as we left them they brought it square again , and as there was a light wind from the north and east the bark began to draw slowly away from us .
i have no doubt that he has caught him by this time .
i have no doubt that there were times when my life hung in the balance .
it seemed altogether past belief that anyone could make such a will , or that they would pay such a sum for doing anything so simple as copying out the ' encyclopaedia britannica .
it would be no light thing that would give rise to it .
you observed that her right glove was torn at the forefinger , but you did not apparently see that both glove and finger were stained with violet ink .
i suppose that fits into its place .
i therefore directed my attention at once to the garden path , which was saturated with recent rain , and would certainly show any footmarks .
she has been married three years , and believes that her position is quite secure , having shown her husband the death certificate of some man whose name she has assumed , when suddenly her whereabouts is discovered by her first husband or , we may suppose , by some unscrupulous woman who has attached herself to the invalid .
a moment later she had appeared with a red flat box in her hand .
when dusk comes we should find ourselves one stage advanced in our investigation .
get your word in first , or the hounds will be on your trail .
sterndale sprang to his feet .
you need n't look startled .
we had driven up in a dog cart , and my client led me away at once , without our entering the house , to the scar on the lawn where the elm had stood .
i told the police last time they did it that they should stop these disgraceful exhibitions .
over this chaplet my brother bartholomew and i had some little discussion .
yes , i should not be surprised to learn that what we have heard is the cry of the last of the bitterns .
you go too fast .
strange that now in its old age this dark business should have cast its shadow upon the venerable walls !
sorry to interrupt your consultation ,
to the right of the sierra blanco so we shall reach the rio grande ,
but if not , there is no object in raking up this scandal against a dead man , foully as he has acted .
and i you ,
there may be many of us that will have to look out for ourselves .
what 's all this ?
even shaking would tell him nothing , for as the plaster was wet it was probable that the pearl would adhere to it as , in fact , it has done .
and if i was scared when a hand fell on me , can n't you understand it when it might have been the hand of a detective ?
i stood for a few minutes with my heart in my boots , wondering whether the whole thing was an elaborate hoax or not , when up came a man and addressed me .
i think we 'll shut that window again , if you do n't mind .
then at the gasfitters ' ball you met , as i understand , a gentleman called mr hosmer angel .
thank you , i am in no humour for a walk .
he has a cup of tea taken in to him early every morning .
it is a pure matter of form .
well , sir , i thought no more of the matter , and never would have done had it not been for my wife .
any bad habits ?
if you had left me alone i would not have hurt you .
have no fears , boys for we have a dozen witnesses that we are in the union bar at this very moment .
i answer , because i was well convinced that our troubles were in some way dependent upon an incident in my uncle 's life , and that the danger would be as pressing in one house as in another .
oh , i did n't say there was anything against him .
anything else ?
i gave holmes 's remarks as a consecutive whole and will not attempt to indicate how they were interrupted by gaspings for breath and those clutchings of his hands which indicated the pain from which he was suffering .
wherever the english could collect in little bands they held just the ground that their guns commanded .
baker street was like an oven , and the glare of the sunlight upon the yellow brickwork of the house across the road was painful to the eye .
you will find a small brougham waiting close to the curb , driven by a fellow with a heavy black cloak tipped at the collar with red .
that dr mortimer is a successful , elderly medical man , well esteemed since those who know him give him this mark of their appreciation .
this fellow , a lascar , was well paid by me for his rooms , so that i knew that my secret was safe in his possession .
the young lady , with great clearness and composure , made the following curious statement :
what is it , watson ?
dear me , mr holmes .
this is where they came through ,
did you say he was dead ?
an examination showed she had indeed developed mania of a dangerous and permanent form .
the wanderer explained
he was a brave man , but he trembled at the vague , shadowy terrors which hung over him .
you must know that last night was the very first night that i have ever slept without a nurse in the room .
the next night we lowered the lamp and sat smoking cigarettes without making the least sound .
the boarding house was near the edge of the town , and soon they were at the crossroads which is beyond its boundary .
i can quite understand your thinking so ,
i could not see her face in the darkness , but her arms were thrown out in an attitude of entreaty .
but to whom ?
he must be near his light .
now , it is a fact , gentlemen , as you may see for yourselves , that my hair is of a very full and rich tint , so that it seemed to me that if there was to be any competition in the matter i stood as good a chance as any man that i had ever met .
diminutive footmarks , toes never fettered by boots , naked feet , stone headed wooden mace , great agility , small poisoned darts .
oh , a trusty comrade is always of use and a chronicler still more so .
because it ran up the curtain .
i screamed , ' you villain !
well we have been married now for a year , and very happy we have been .
he slouched out of the room , and half an hour afterwards left the house , leaving my father in a state of pitiable nervousness .
my dear watson , i owe you a thousand apologies .
dear inspector macdonald said the letter which he read to us :
it was broken by the chairman .
however , let us hear some more about the objects which do seem to you to bear upon the case .
so shaky was he that he could hardly pick up his change , and the clerk had helped him with it .
he found her alone in the sitting room that same evening , and he poured his troubles into her ear .
why should he wish to live at the place of danger ?
i could see by his manner that he had stronger reasons for satisfaction than his words alone would imply .
surely that is baker street ,
i took him in hand , though he was as venomous as a young snake , and after a couple of months i got him all right and able to walk .
why , that makes it as clear as crystal ,
it is years since i wrote it .
he would be the heir to the estate because that is entailed .
the light beneath him was reflected in his small , cunning eyes which peered fiercely to right and left through the darkness like a crafty and savage animal who has heard the steps of the hunters .
it was lit at the time , and if it was lit this corner would be the brightest instead of the darkest portion of the wall .
i would willingly give five hundred ,
he tested how much of the garden was visible he examined the floor , the ceiling , and the fireplace but never once did i see that sudden brightening of his eyes and tightening of his lips which would have told me that he saw some gleam of light in this utter darkness .
then i shall go in it .
no one knows how these things are worked .
we are fortunate , indeed , in having you at our side .
but i was bound to ask .
this side , sir this narrow margin of grass between the path and the flower bed .
as you read on you will find that this is not so .
i fainted once more , but again it could only have been for a very few minutes during which i was insensible .
making our way among the trees , we reached the lawn , crossed it , and were about to enter through the window when out from a clump of laurel bushes there darted what seemed to be a hideous and distorted child , who threw itself upon the grass with writhing limbs and then ran swiftly across the lawn into the darkness .
i wired to mr gregson to run you down in london while i examined wisteria lodge .
excellent !
he was indeed off , for after sniffing round again he suddenly made up his mind , and darted away with an energy and determination such as he had not yet shown .
i seem to have dropped into a sort of council of war .
he clutched her hand to detain her .
have you telegraph forms ?
cried the stranger .
i cannot think how i came to overlook it ,
we know at least that he came so far in safety .
when i came down , mr rucastle met me here and drove me in his dog cart to the copper beeches .
i am not sure that in defence of your own life your action will not be pronounced legitimate .
i do not think that it is probable that i shall use the carriage to night .
she 's mine ' cause i saved her .
i am sure that he would be delighted .
it was obvious , then , that those initials had once been very familiar to you , and that you had afterwards wished to forget them .
but it is very essential to me that the money should be paid at once .
i promised i 'd come to her soon .
this done , he appeared to be satisfied , for he replaced his tape and his glass in his pocket .
my father made the fellow gardener , and then , as that did not satisfy him , he was promoted to be butler .
a few cattle tracks , nothing more .
see how that one little cloud floats like a pink feather from some gigantic flamingo .
no signs of any mental excitement ?
it was evening before we reached the little town of tavistock , which lies , like the boss of a shield , in the middle of the huge circle of dartmoor .
there was a thud and a groan .
this statement came from mrs charpentier 's lips with many gasps and pauses .
you can see now that it is fastened to a hook just above where the little opening for the ventilator is .
i have grave doubts as to my mitral valve , if you would be so very good .
it was empty .
you had better come with me ,
as it chanced , however , there was one of the convict guard down there , a vile pathan who had never missed a chance of insulting and injuring me .
that we should have heard his screams my god , those screams !
there is no other white man .
at what address ?
instead of grasping at the chance of safety which that offered him , he sprang from his bed and flew at my throat .
the next the whole frame collapsed again , and holmes had gone as quickly as he had come .
i could hardly keep from smiling at his crestfallen face when he finally snapped the case to and handed it back .
his voice was as smooth and suave as his countenance , as he advanced with a plump little hand extended , murmuring his regret for having missed us at his first visit .
and now , watson , let me see you in your old seat once more , for there are several points which i should like to discuss with you .
he could not fail to connect my sudden return with his crime , and to be terribly alarmed .
when he arrives he will be met by the obtuse but resolute lestrade , and i have no doubt that we shall have all our details filled in .
you told me that you had bachelor quarters for one , and i see that you have no gentleman visitor at present .
good evening .
i suggested .
you would naturally think so and the thought has cost several their lives before now .
i had promised when he first wrote that i would not try to trace him .
was he in the master 's class ?
he did not attempt to deny that he had acted as described upon the evening before , but declared that he had no sinister designs , and had simply wished to obtain first hand information .
i doubt if we could strike a match in that atmosphere .
he makes one curious but profound remark .
no , sir he eats so little that i often wonder it can keep life in one .
well , if that is n't smart !
there !
he had turned also , and still kept his distance until the curve of the road hid them from my sight .
i stood for five minutes thinking the business over , and trying to analyze my impressions .
damp and raw .
then i examined the gun .
from comparing notes afterwards it was but an hour and a quarter , yet it appeared to me that the night must have almost gone and the dawn be breaking above us .
i am sorry , mrs smith , for i wanted a steam launch , and i have heard good reports of the let me see , what is her name ?
only once had this lady been brought into contact with sailors , and that was on her voyage , and it was someone of her own class of life , since she was trying hard to shield him , and so showing that she loved him .
he slipped his key into the lock , and we all very quietly entered the cell .
james and i have always loved each other as brother and sister but of course he is young and has seen very little of life yet , and and well , he naturally did not wish to do anything like that yet .
her face was beautifully flushed with her exertions and she held her hand to her side .
you are only answerable to yourself , but i have to answer to my superiors .
quite another shaped box , my good holmes , i assure you .
morstan and i had a difference of opinion as to the division of the treasure , and we came to heated words .
i have told you now the whole truth , and if i withheld it from the police it is because i did not realize then the danger in which my dear friend stood .
apparently the tenants had brought little or nothing with them , and all the furniture down to the smallest details had been taken over with the house .
pray do so .
if anyone were forced to conceal himself in this room he must do it there , since the bed is too low and the wardrobe too shallow .
you must obtain the release of young neligan as soon as possible ,
i have told you everything .
but it 's god 's own wind none the less , and a cleaner , better , stronger land will lie in the sunshine when the storm has cleared .
good god !
the wise mariner stands far out from that evil place .
have no hesitation in lighting one .
unaccustomed to sudden emergencies , her head began to swim , and her grip upon the bridle to relax .
i was smoking in my dressing room .
a sad faced , elderly woman came into the room .
when a few of the bravest had rallied , and there was a return to the mine , the murderous gang had vanished in the mists of morning , without a single witness being able to swear to the identity of these men who in front of a hundred spectators had wrought this double crime .
again he shouted , even louder than before , and again no whisper came back from the friends whom he had left such a short time ago .
well , dr watson , you 've never had such a story as that pass through your hands before , and i 'll lay my last dollar on that .
which do you care to use ?
i am presuming that the cause of his fears came to him across the moor .
she said and her white gloved hands clasped and unclasped as she spoke i will speak frankly to you in the hopes that it may induce you to speak frankly in return .
it has been folded over three times and sealed with purple wax , put on hurriedly and pressed down with some flat oval object .
on being arrested he volunteered the statement that he had come down to dartmoor in the hope of getting some information about the king 's pyland horses , and also about desborough , the second favorite , which was in charge of silas brown at the mapleton stables .
it 's a murder society , that 's vat it is .
i have excellent ears .
holmes seemed to know the grounds perfectly , and he threaded his way swiftly among a plantation of small trees , i close at his heels , and our foremost pursuer panting behind us .
dr mortimer looked strangely at us for an instant , and his voice sank almost to a whisper as he answered .
you 've been here too short a time .
watson , when you reach london you would oblige me by driving at once to baker street with our friend here , and remaining with him until i see you again .
the last words in it were ' for god 's sake , ' he whispered , confidentially
we had reason to believe that his wife had been murdered , and that a man presumably a seafaring man had been murdered at the same time .
she was rather above the middle height , slim , with dark hair and eyes , which seemed the darker against the absolute pallor of her skin .
one of them was suddenly shut off .
very right too .
then there 's that wedding ring .
when we have him by the heels we can see if new york can n't help us to keep him .
it all fits together .
a nice old brier with a good long stem of what the tobacconists call amber .
when first i saw signs of strange weapons i was inclined to think so but the remarkable character of the footmarks caused me to reconsider my views .
it corresponds with the injuries .
i had been taking three pounds a week at coxon 's , and i had saved about seventy of them , but i soon worked my way through that and out at the other end .
in oxford street we picked up a hansom and drove to an address in hampstead .
there is no honour in such a matter .
i saw him once look hard over my shoulder , so i turned round and looked also .
he nearly made the girl an accomplice in the treason by telling her his plans .
did any of them know their way about in the office ?
what is there for us to do ?
it must have been a very long time , for the moon had sunk , and a bright morning was breaking when i came to myself .
yesterday .
a tin box for botanical specimens hung over his shoulder and he carried a green butterfly net in one of his hands .
here is an advertisement which will interest you ,
i was only crown prince then .
my , but that was smart !
wait a bit !
you have been recommended to me , mr hatherley , as being a man who is not only proficient in his profession but is also discreet and capable of preserving a secret .
she had turned a dreadful colour , the more ghastly under the dark dust streaks upon her face .
yet it was upon this easy going young aristocrat that death came , in most strange and unexpected form , between the hours of ten and eleven twenty on the night of march , .
yes , we had best do so .
he looked across at my companion with despair in his weary eyes , as though his question was already answered .
i am bob carruthers , and i 'll see this woman righted , if i have to swing for it .
we have our own means of information .
the other fellow is probably an italian also , and a member of the mafia .
an instant later a gray haired man rushed out on the landing .
a search was made at once not only of his person but of his room and of every portion of the house where he could possibly have concealed the gems but no trace of them could be found , nor would the wretched boy open his mouth for all our persuasions and our threats .
in my company at the present moment .
if he were in a hurry it opens up the interesting question why he should be in a hurry , since any letter posted up to early morning would reach sir henry before he would leave his hotel .
i have a note in my pocket here which you will take to my brother .
but i was eager to get back to my charge .
this is the place .
mcginty held them to the light in his enormous hand , which was hairy as a gorilla 's .
the most of them would by no means advance , but three of them , the boldest , or it may be the most drunken , rode forward down the goyal .
it was a remarkable face , bold gray eyes , a strong , short clipped , grizzled moustache , a square , projecting chin , and a humorous mouth .
lestrade 's face had begun to grow red and angry .
nothing could have been more admirable than his way of putting it .
the former had flushed up to the roots of his flaxen hair , while the other 's beady eyes glistened with curiosity and resentment .
but you cannot light it at a lamp without getting the bowl charred .
to that then i turned all my energies .
and you know the incredible stupidity of that class .
the oil lamp on the table represented the glow which we had seen from outside .
holmes groaned .
this detour has been entirely for our benefit , then ?
at the moment i was simply conscious that i was in the presence of a very handsome woman , and that she was asking me the reasons for my visit .
undoubtedly .
i can assure you ,
the house of the famous official was a fine villa with green lawns stretching down to the thames .
twenty two guineas is rather heavy for a single costume .
he waved his hands .
excellent !
well , you take the case up by all means , and let me know if you do any good .
this has always been a respectable establishment , and the only time that we have ever had the police in it was over this very fellow .
here comes something at last to break our dead monotony .
go back !
here 's a man dead there 's no denying that but , so far as i can see , no reason on earth why anyone should wish him harm .
my dear mr holmes :
so it would seem ,
a gang of murderers , are they not ?
but the mystery ?
a few minutes later , we had stopped at a large mansion in the busiest thoroughfare .
i went back to the hotel with the big book under my arm , and with very conflicting feelings in my breast .
i have felt helpless .
if there was one report there might be others , so i looked round the hut in search of them .
well , there would be no harm in that ,
how our hydraulic engineer had been conveyed from the garden to the spot where he recovered his senses might have remained forever a mystery were it not for the soft mould , which told us a very plain tale .
with every throb of the engines we sprang and quivered like a living thing .
your presence will be of great service to me ,
it 's easy to tell that you have been accustomed to wear a uniform , watson .
he was bright , eager , and in excellent spirits , a mood which in his case alternated with fits of the blackest depression .
quite so ,
my boy here .
and good night , watson ,
meanwhile you will leave me these papers , and i think that it is very likely that i shall be able to pay you a visit shortly and to throw some light upon your case .
of course it has moved ,
all were agreed that one could be ordered , but that it was not a usual size of pencil and that it was seldom kept in stock .
his eyes kindled and a slight flush sprang into his thin cheeks .
when your round is a short one you walk , and when it is a long one you use a hansom .
it is the second most interesting object that i have seen in the north .
considering how many hundreds of statues of the great emperor must exist in london , it is too much to suppose such a coincidence as that a promiscuous iconoclast should chance to begin upon three specimens of the same bust .
no , sir nothing .
i 'm surprised that you 've not reported to the bodymaster .
how about these papers ?
it is a customary contraction like our ' co .
fresh scandals have eclipsed it , and their more piquant details have drawn the gossips away from this four year old drama .
we have known each other since we were little children , and i know his faults as no one else does but he is too tender hearted to hurt a fly .
his appearance was quite familiar to me .
his extreme love of solitude in england suggests the idea that he was in fear of someone or something , so we may assume as a working hypothesis that it was fear of someone or something which drove him from america .
the man was sitting up , blanched and ghastly , with returning reason in his eyes , and hands which rubbed nervously at the broad red band which still encircled his throat .
the face which she turned towards us was of the strangest livid tint , and the features were absolutely devoid of any expression .
it is in double column .
thank you !
you may have some recollection of the death of mrs stewart , of lauder , in .
his pale cheeks flushed with pleasure at hearing that his work was known to me .
have you read anything else in this message , mr holmes ?
thank you .
holmes opened it and turned the contents out .
if you do n't it 's a fine , law abiding country is england , and there 's always a policeman within hail .
she entered now , a tall and beautiful woman of thirty , reserved and self possessed to a remarkable degree , very different from the tragic and distracted figure i had pictured .
he was in his most cheerful and debonair humour .
there was nothing else save the five dried pips .
he cried .
the key being turned , however , the hole was not entirely closed .
come , come , sir ,
oh , it is as well to test everything .
then , again , how about the connection between carruthers and woodley , since they appear to be men of such a different type ?
and now she has no word hard enough for jim browner .
at last , however , some three or four years ago , we found ourselves in england .
there was no powder blackening on the clothes .
did the composer fear an interruption and from whom ?
i have had so much to do inside the house ,
my friend rose now and paced up and down the room , his hands in his pockets , and an expression of the most profound gravity upon his face .
no doubt baynes , with his methodical mind , has already adopted some similar plan .
here is where the party with the lodge keeper came , and they have covered all tracks for six or eight feet round the body .
it is our task to find that out ,
there is another very important point which i wish to discuss with you ,
are you mr john scott eccles , of popham house , lee ?
thank god !
it is your only chance .
did you ever know him ill ?
but what end ?
i whipped up my horse and kept within sight of them , feeling very ill at ease , for i feared that they were going to shift their quarters .
and why should the presents begin immediately after sholto 's death , unless it is that sholto 's heir knows something of the mystery and desires to make compensation ?
were they on the same side of the path as the moor gate ?
do exactly what i tell you !
our course now ran down nine elms until we came to broderick and nelson 's large timber yard , just past the white eagle tavern .
they are not all successes , watson ,
within the gates lestrade met us , his face flushed with victory , his manner grossly triumphant .
it was the most that ettie could obtain , and yet it was something .
where ?
it is , as i gather from your original remarks , an inexplicable , or at least an unexplained , murder .
because he foresaw that she would be very much more useful to him in the character of a free woman .
after that there was no sign , but the path ran right on into ragged shaw , the wood which backed on to the school .
my memory failed me , or i should have been able to foretell it .
this is a very serious matter , small ,
then you may be so with me .
the facts are these : about four o'clock on christmas morning , peterson , who , as you know , is a very honest fellow , was returning from some small jollification and was making his way homeward down tottenham court road .
there was no movement .
well , that 's likely enough .
you 're a real hand picked one , if i am a judge .
who was he ?
no , no i ai n't goin'to lose a whole day to please no one .
there i halted on my way home , and met with courtesy from the representative .
patent leathers and square toes came in the same cab , and they walked down the pathway together as friendly as possible arm in arm , in all probability .
cried a dozen fierce voices .
murmured holmes , as he stood in the light of the window and examined them minutely .
holmes had sprung to his feet , and i saw his dark , athletic outline at the door of the hut , his shoulders stooping , his head thrust forward , his face peering into the darkness .
the body of the unfortunate baronet had been removed , and all else remained as we had seen it in the morning .
i could only think of one way of doing it .
but how can we gain your freedom ?
but there is , if you will excuse my saying so , something just a little funny about it .
we descended and started off once more for briony lodge .
capital !
he passes under the name of steve wilson , and he is lodging at hobson 's patch .
the escaped convict , sir selden , the criminal .
we shall keep you , whether you like or not , until our friend returns .
there are just one or two questions that i would ask him .
cried holmes .
sure , hard words break no bones .
i nodded , to show that i followed his reasoning .
i observe that there is a good deal of german music on the programme , which is rather more to my taste than italian or french .
the student had drawn himself erect .
what are you going to do with me ?
what is it ?
well , sir , not of much account but three of them have gone lame , sir
in vain i endeavored to interest him in afghanistan , in india , in social questions , in anything which might take his mind out of the groove .
lawler smiled and shook his head .
we cracked off the necks of the bottles , poured the stuff out into tumblers , and were just tossing them off , when in an instant without warning there came the roar of muskets in our ears , and the saloon was so full of smoke that we could not see across the table .
threats and even , i am sorry to say , blows refused to move her .
what may you be wantin ' ?
no doubt you will go to the prison to see james .
you might possibly find that there was something in it .
adventure ii .
sherlock holmes picked them up one by one , and laid them along the edge of the table .
we must leave that question to the future .
at the same moment the convict screamed out a curse at us and hurled a rock which splintered up against the boulder which had sheltered us .
i must say that i am rather disappointed in our london consultant ,
sherlock holmes was as good as his word , for about one o'clock he rejoined us in the colonel 's smoking room .
you are nearly half an hour late .
i approached the house , as you know , on foot , and with my mind entirely free from all impressions .
it opens a pleasing field for intelligent speculation .
i was isa whitney 's medical adviser , and as such i had influence over him .
you should have no difficulty in getting him .
i regret exceedingly that i cannot help you in this matter , and any continuation of this interview would be a waste of time .
patrick cairns .
but what is the meaning of these head keepers and hen pheasants ?
and yet his first action , when the door had closed behind him , was to stagger against the table , whence he slipped down upon the floor , and there was that majestic figure prostrate and insensible upon our bearskin hearth rug .
it will n't do , watson !
cried holmes .
i felt rather indignant at having two characters whom i had admired treated in this cavalier style .
dear me !
the box alone must be of some value .
i believe that he would do exactly what you now suggest ,
he managed to find employment with morse hudson , and in that way tracked down three of them .
as we know , he came back by the side gate .
in appearance he was a man of exceedingly aristocratic type , thin , high nosed , and large eyed , with languid and yet courtly manners .
she is very old and deaf , and we can get no information from her .
your innocent soul , my darling , could not even guess what is passing in mine .
again in the utter silence i heard that thin , sibilant note which spoke of intense suppressed excitement .
possibly he leaves england and only comes back at intervals .
he stammered .
the rest i need not relate .
the revolver had an ejector , and here is the third cartridge .
again , the letter speaks of giving her justice .
can you remember any other little things about mr hosmer angel ?
who 's this in the bush ?
a nihilist plot that 's what i make it .
urgent representations have arrived from the very highest quarter .
he was too much absorbed with his own thoughts to give any immediate answer to my remonstrance .
he balanced the watch in his hand , gazed hard at the dial , opened the back , and examined the works , first with his naked eyes and then with a powerful convex lens .
he carried a broad brimmed hat in his hand , while he wore across the upper vizard mask , which he had apparently adjusted that very moment , for his hand was still raised to it as he entered .
i come to you as a last resource .
even your name need not be mentioned .
i 'm glad you 've got so far as to recognize the talent .
hullo , mate !
mccarthy kept two servants a man and a girl .
nothing of the sort , ' i answered .
this is my point .
i have some few references to make .
the country detective was a stout , puffy , red man , whose face was only redeemed from grossness by two extraordinarily bright eyes , almost hidden behind the heavy creases of cheek and brow .
surely because there is some connection between three things the burning , the stuffy atmosphere , and , finally , the madness or death of those unfortunate people .
now , i know that there are seventeen steps , because i have both seen and observed .
quite so .
no doubt , mr mac .
cried the prisoner passionately .
i happen to know that he paid seven hundred pounds to a footman for a note two lines in length , and that the ruin of a noble family was the result .
if it were suicide , then we have to believe that this man began by taking off his wedding ring and concealing it that he then came down here in his dressing gown , trampled mud into a corner behind the curtain in order to give the idea someone had waited for him , opened the window , put blood on the
he seemed to bring a whiff of his strong , fresh , bracing , east coast air with him as he entered .
only cecil barker seemed to be master of himself and his emotions he had opened the door which was nearest to the entrance and he had beckoned to the sergeant to follow him .
i should wish to make it an absolute specialty , but , of course , a man must take what he can get at first .
it is absolutely impossible .
no one .
we believed , my mother and i , that he and it , with the securities that he had taken with him , were at the bottom of the sea .
yes , that was it .
you were dwelling upon the sadness and horror and useless waste of life .
he was much excited , and evidently the worse for drink .
bring the box back with you to the baker street rooms you will find us there , on our way to the station .
are you mr godfrey staunton ?
the other cried , defiantly
his manner was brisk , and yet his general appearance gave an undue impression of age , for he had a slight forward stoop and a little bend of the knees as he walked .
this he unpacked with the help of a youth whom he had brought with him , and presently , to my very great astonishment , a quite epicurean little cold supper began to be laid out upon our humble lodging house mahogany .
dear little chap !
so excited and alarmed was he that i was compelled to go down to the spot where the animal had been and look around for it .
mr trevor mumbled something to us about having been shipmate with the man when he was going back to the diggings , and then , leaving us on the lawn , he went indoors .
i will take an unpleasant remembrance back to london with me tomorrow .
he was back in a moment , and i smelt a strong reek of brandy as he passed me .
i cried .
and for my part i shall set about it by presuming that my reasoning is correct , and that a double murder has been committed .
has he escaped ?
well , i do n't know it but vermissa is out of my beat .
they consisted of a couple of comfortable bed rooms and a single large airy sitting room , cheerfully furnished , and illuminated by two broad windows .
looking down on this very scene , there stood upon the fourth of may , eighteen hundred and forty seven , a solitary traveller .
gone , too , was the horrid scar which had seamed it across , and the twisted lip which had given the repulsive sneer to the face !
we have it all here ,
by post ?
remarkable most remarkable !
he had stood behind that tree during the interview between the father and son .
oh , any old key will fit that bureau .
we are at present , doctor as no doubt you have divined in the cellar of the city branch of one of the principal london banks .
certainly not !
posted in camberwell that does n't help us much .
the bicycle still leaned against the wall .
your presence might be invaluable .
i was only ten years of age at the time , but i was old enough to feel the shame and horror of it all .
and gregson can come inside with me .
as it is , i am giving away valuable copy by telling my story over and over to a string of different people , and i can make no use of it myself .
there is one other point ,
seems to me they are playing me for a sucker in this hotel ,
have you any arms ?
john swain cleared .
it 's nothing of the kind .
then i walked round to see that all was right before i went upstairs .
it was a delicate point , and it widened the field of my inquiry .
the detective continued ,
you will remember , inspector macdonald , that i was somewhat struck by the absence of a dumb bell .
she looked at me with a quick , questioning smile .
but no one can glance at your toilet and attire without seeing that your disturbance dates from the moment of your waking .
he took out his revolver as he spoke , and , having loaded two of the chambers , he put it back into the right hand pocket of his jacket .
a slow and heavy step , which had been heard upon the stairs and in the passage , paused immediately outside the door .
he is now translating my small works into french .
it was arranged as he suggested , though miss harrison excused herself from leaving the bedroom , in accordance with holmes 's suggestion .
rance resumed his seat , without however losing his mystified expression .
there were only four letters in the word which preceded ' elsie , ' and it ended in e .
holmes was sitting with his back to me , and i had given him no sign of my occupation .
i 'm sorry , but i have already overstayed my time .
what do you think of my theory ?
i am aware , mr holmes , that you take a very high line in professional matters , and that you are prepared to work for the work 's sake .
but the main reason lies in the one fact , which is notorious to everyone , and that is that sir eustace was a confirmed drunkard .
are you coming with us to see the remains of your bust , mr harker ?
would you ?
one was found in his purse .
it is marvellous .
if they do not themselves find it out , i see no reason why i should prompt them to take a broader point of view .
sherlock holmes chuckled to himself , and appeared to be about to make some remark , when lestrade , who had been in the front room while we were holding this conversation in the hall , reappeared upon the scene , rubbing his hands in a pompous and self satisfied manner .
you 'll be the undoing of us yet !
you have drawn a net round this man from which he cannot escape , and you have saved an innocent human life as truly as if you had cut the cord which was hanging him .
she was much impressed by your kindness and skill .
we had gone on the may day for a round voyage of seven days , but a hogshead got loose and started one of our plates , so that we had to put back into port for twelve hours .
and these people are my clients .
we could judge the splendor of the missing riches by the chaplet which he had taken out .
i thought at the time that this might be the maid and her sweetheart , of whom you had already spoken to me , and inquiry showed it was so .
have you tried to drive a harpoon through a body ?
the doctor had departed to his patients , and only the inspector and myself remained .
was sir james a man who was orderly in his habits ?
with your leave or without it , mr holmes , i am going for a doctor this very hour ,
for in those cases in which holmes has performed some tour de force of analytical reasoning , and has demonstrated the value of his peculiar methods of investigation , the facts themselves have often been so slight or so commonplace that i could not feel justified in laying them before the public .
you have forced me , against my own judgment , to tell you , and now we must both make the best of it .
he had returned with the prize , but had left a fragment in the grasp of his opponent .
we are before our time , and suffer the usual penalties .
the busts ,
not the drains , i hope ?
the course of events in london did not run so well as i had hoped , for the trial of the moriarty gang left two of its most dangerous members , my own most vindictive enemies , at liberty .
she is very fast ,
though most of the facts were familiar to me , i had not sufficiently appreciated their relative importance , nor their connection to each other .
the carriage is our rendezvous , then ?
on , on to zion !
then he waddled round in circles , looking up to us from time to time , as if to ask for sympathy in his embarrassment .
what a pity we did not get the number !
cried her mother and then , turning to me , ' i will tell you all , sir do not imagine that my agitation on behalf of my son arises from any fear lest he should have had a hand in this terrible affair .
he put his shoes on the table .
i do n't know how you manage this , mr holmes , but it seems to me that all the detectives of fact and of fancy would be children in your hands .
he came back or someone came back when all witnesses were out of the way .
i swore that i would not leave the hut until i knew .
i should be most happy to go down with you if i should not be in the way ,
it was i .
quite a family party ,
there 's a deed of violence indicated in that fellow 's round shoulders and outstretched neck .
there was a bottle of wine on the sideboard , and i opened it and poured a little between mary 's lips , for she was half dead with shock .
i want to know what i ought to do next .
because this treasure , these riches , sealed my lips .
our young friend seems to be getting into deep waters ,
quite so .
stand still , will you ?
give me another theory that would fit the facts .
may i ask if they are all large , able bodied men with powerful voices ?
if they are innocent it would be a cruel injustice , and if they are guilty we should be giving up all chance of bringing it home to them .
he could drink hard and show little trace of it but that evening , had his mate scanlan not been at hand to lead him home , the feted hero would surely have spent his night under the bar .
you must not mind my bein ' just a little short wi ' you at first , for i 'm guyed at by the children , and there 's many a one just comes down this lane to knock me up .
all this in little gasps , with terrible struggles for breath between .
it was very essential for stapleton to get some article of sir henry 's attire so that , in case he was driven to use the dog , he might always have the means of setting him upon his track .
well , mrs warren , what now ?
the wooden fence which separated the grounds from the road threw a dense black shadow upon the inner side , and here it was that we crouched .
i was five months in hospital over it , and when at last i was able to limp out of it with this timber toe strapped to my stump i found myself invalided out of the army and unfitted for any active occupation .
this case deserves to be a classic .
he threw it open , and as he did so there was a low , harsh murmur , growing steadily into a loud roar as a train dashed past us in the darkness .
at the same instant there was a heavy thud , which shook the old house , and then all was silence .
there 's nothing in it .
my husband found and kept both diary and letters .
that was a good deal earlier half an hour at least before the ringing of the bell .
but why ?
it is in common use .
she had been terribly excited immediately after his disappearance .
i was about to make some remark to him , when i raised my eyes to the lighted window , and again experienced almost as great a surprise as before .
the young man smiled with an air of embarrassment .
family papers , letters from my poor wife , diplomas of universities which have done me honour .
anybody bringing
a good cyclist does not need a high road .
they are as sharp as needles , too all they want is organisation .
our unfortunate client rose with a ghastly face .
a maid rushed across and threw open the window .
eight weeks passed away like this , and i had written about abbots and archery and armour and architecture and attica , and hoped with diligence that i might get on to the b 's before very long .
he appeared to be in a great hurry , shouted to the cabman to wait , and brushed past the maid who opened the door with the air of a man who was thoroughly at home .
and pray what am i charged with ?
our cab was awaiting us outside , and our programme was evidently prearranged , for the driver started off at once at a rapid pace .
i want you to take it home with you , and to mark off all the hardware sellers , with their addresses .
does not that strike you ?
i well remember how he plied me with questions as to the amount and the time that was needed for its effect , but i little dreamed that he could have a personal reason for asking .
you gave me such a fright .
i sprang for the foot path and saved myself by the fraction of a second .
then they were aware of a strange step inside and of an unfamiliar voice .
but we may sleep on it now , for i shall be surprised if we do not hear something further from brook street in the morning .
what passion of hatred can it be which leads a man to lurk in such a place at such a time !
and going like the devil !
your fatal habit of looking at everything from the point of view of a story instead of as a scientific exercise has ruined what might have been an instructive and even classical series of demonstrations .
but the morning paper was uninteresting .
right across the lower part of the bog lay a miry path .
i have no doubt that i am myself to blame .
yes , i shall drive .
why , i thought that nothing could awake you .
it was at the window .
we are moving in exalted circles ,
in last year 's anthropological journal you will find two short monographs from my pen upon the subject .
my friend dr watson made that suggestion to me as we came down .
well , look at this !
had he appeared surprised at his own arrest , or feigned indignation at it , i should have looked upon it as highly suspicious , because such surprise or anger would not be natural under the circumstances , and yet might appear to be the best policy to a scheming man .
continued stangerson ,
exactly ,
what the phrase meant , or who our secret visitor may have been , we never knew .
as he spoke he opened a door and showed the way into a room which appeared to be very richly furnished , but again the only light was afforded by a single lamp half turned down .
in fact , if you had not gone today it is exceedingly probable that i should have gone tomorrow .
he tossed a crumpled letter across to me .
i thank you ,
and where may that be ?
do you know where he is ?
he greeted us with a stately courtesy and seated himself at his desk , his red beard streaming down on the table .
but perhaps you would not mind waiting here for a minute or two , for if we all go in together and she has no word of our coming she may be alarmed .
this is only where we compress it .
when he was gone i unlocked my bureau , made sure that my treasure was safe , and locked it again .
let it be so .
yet a man has mounted by the window .
but i was a criminal then , part sharer in a murder , lost forever in this world , and lost also in the next .
but it does seem a queer thing ,
she lives quietly , sings at concerts , drives out at five every day , and returns at seven sharp for dinner .
i do n't see what that has to do with it .
miss irene , or madame , rather , returns from her drive at seven .
i never explained to my wife how things were .
now , watson , there is one other condition that i would make .
i am a bachelor ,
ah , here is a four wheeler , and miss morstan is inside .
it is selden , the man who escaped from princetown .
look here , lestrade ,
ah , wilson , i see you have not forgotten the little case in which i had the good fortune to help you ?
he was last seen on the night of may th that is , the night of last monday .
disgraceful , sir !
he waits downstairs , and runs up to show patients out when i ring the consulting room bell .
i am in hopes that she does .
the carpet was of amber and black , so soft and so thick that the foot sank pleasantly into it , as into a bed of moss .
what a strange idea !
how on earth did you do that ?
sherlock holmes seemed to be embarrassed by the question .
nine to seven !
who would inherit the estate ?
she had been awakened by the alarm of fire .
no one is ever permitted to enter that room save the house maid in the morning , and my valet , or my wife 's maid , during the rest of the day .
but suppose it were so , we are still as far as ever from unravelling the mystery of his death .
the policeman and i agreed that our best plan would be to seize the woman before she could get rid of the papers , presuming that she had them .
holmes halted and looked earnestly at the window .
i will make no allowance .
never had i known my friend more moved , and yet the dark street still stretched lonely and motionless before us .
some preposterous practical joke ,
tell me where you picked him up and all that occurred .
having measured these very carefully from seven or eight different points , holmes desired to be led to the court yard , from which we all followed the winding track which led to boscombe pool .
in answer to an advertisement .
heaven knows what !
that 's no business of ours .
the randall gang were arrested in new york this morning .
yes , i will while away the morning at godolphin street with our friends of the regular establishment .
the room was in its normal state , and in it i passed an instructive quarter of an hour .
well , i waited until the road was clear it is never a very frequented one at any time , i fancy and then i clambered over the fence into the grounds .
the very night of his arrival he became very much the worse for drink , and , indeed , after twelve o clock in the day he could hardly ever be said to be sober .
it is only half past three .
where 's he got to ?
according to the story given to us , the assassin had less than a minute after the murder had been committed to take that ring , which was under another ring , from the dead man 's finger , to replace the other ring a thing which he would surely never have done and to put that singular card beside his victim .
you can look for yourself .
that tries a man 's nerves more than work , and more even than pleasure .
i am about to be married .
i thought that you were in baker street working out that case of blackmailing .
i can see that he suspects me .
it was a confession ,
nor lestrade ?
my dear fellow , i know you well .
what do you think of that ?
when he had fallen i rushed from the room , chose the wrong door , and found myself in my husband 's room .
the sturdy old man , whom he had left so short a time before , was gone , then , and this was all his epitaph .
can you not clear up the last point in this mystery , and tell us the reasons for your action ?
and now , miss stoner , we must leave you for if dr roylott returned and saw us our journey would be in vain .
i must raise the money in some way , and if you will not let me have it , then i must try other means .
a haze lay low upon the farthest sky line , out of which jutted the fantastic shapes of belliver and vixen tor .
boots had then run down the lane , and another little smudge of blood showed that it was he who had been hurt .
on the morning of the fourteenth , a gentleman named hosmer angel .
it was nine feet in length .
he had not gone to rosenlaui , then .
here was an opportunity of taking the conceit out of him .
well , i do n't know why i should n't , for there 's no cause for me to be ashamed of it .
an investigator needs facts and not legends or rumours .
and it did !
you thought it might injure his reputation ?
the only conceivable motive was that which had been suggested by sir henry , that if the family could be scared away a comfortable and permanent home would be secured for the barrymores .
i am disposed to help your grace to the best of my ability , but , in order to do so , i must understand to the last detail how the matter stands .
then with his lens he tested the hinges , but they were of solid iron , built firmly into the massive masonry .
nor running a chance of arrest ?
the secretary was saying .
he is going to bring you up to my rooms , and i shall ask you for a true account of the matter .
no man lives or has ever lived who has brought the same amount of study and of natural talent to the detection of crime which i have done .
sound as a bell .
he had risen to his feet , and his eyes glowed like embers .
his talk about a burglary was the merest blind .
without a word , the duke pressed the electric bell .
her cuisine is a little limited , but she has as good an idea of breakfast as a scotch woman .
the door of the left hand flat upon the third landing was standing ajar .
quite so ,
it is years since the incidents of which i speak took place , and yet it is with diffidence that i allude to them .
outside the street was absolutely deserted .
the baronet 's face perceptibly lengthened .
at the sight , i leaned my back against the door and laughed loud and long .
it was the next morning that i realized that i had only exchanged one trouble for another .
well , well , spend the day as you like ,
we used always to get what we wanted for ourselves .
i found him much troubled over the disappearance of his little spaniel .
this is all very well ,
good bye , and i trust that we shall have nothing but good news from you .
i find , however , a short note at the end of my manuscript dealing with this case , in which i have put it upon record that miss violet smith did indeed inherit a large fortune , and that she is now the wife of cyril morton , the senior partner of morton kennedy , the famous westminster electricians .
i could not see her clearly enough to know more than that she was tall and graceful , with black hair , and clad in some sort of loose white gown .
in half an hour we will n't be able to see our hands in front of us .
come in , sherlock !
excellent .
absolutely !
two days ago woodley came up to my house with this cable , which showed that ralph smith was dead .
if he 's the same ferrier , my father and he were pretty thick .
well , but china ?
the wind howled and screamed at the windows .
it was i also who saved from murder , by the nihilist klopman , count von und zu grafenstein , who was your mother 's elder brother .
the man was waiting and shot him .
the bed has been well slept in , you see .
we ran round , and there lay the unfortunate rider .
the white faced servants were huddling together in the hall , with the frightened butler wringing his hands in the doorway .
well , well ,
all that , of course , fits in with the official theory .
i had seen little of holmes lately .
i could not make it out when first i saw the light flashing upon the lens .
the capital and counties bank , oxford street branch are my agents .
i worked back to him through carlyle .
oh , there can be no doubt as to the sequence of events ,
good morning !
well , i 've no doubt it was well stage managed .
more in your brains than in your pocket , eh ?
is not that the place where an object upon the roof might be expected to fall off ?
if this valley is closed to me and i can never come back , how can i leave you behind , and me perhaps in hiding from the police with never a chance of a message ?
i had it from the stevedore who has been loading their cargo .
square , too , quite unusual boots !
no , my dear fellow , you will go down .
you mean that you think there was no accident ?
but when i made my round in my dressing gown , as was my habit , i had no sooner entered the study than i scented danger .
the method was no doubt suggested to clay 's ingenious mind by the colour of his accomplice 's hair .
shortly after my marriage i had bought a connection in the paddington district .
i had a school ,
on the contrary ,
that is his mark .
it 's close upon the hour .
life has become like that great grimpen mire , with little green patches everywhere into which one may sink and with no guide to point the track .
no , no the real name ,
but send her nothing not even the chaplet until i am gone .
so at last i took my courage in both hands , and i came down to get the papers for myself .
the big horn for so it is called was acting , probably , as a guardian over a flock which were invisible to the hunter but fortunately it was heading in the opposite direction , and had not perceived him .
, done up in a blue envelope and inscribed moriarty . i made every disposition of my property before leaving england , and handed it to my brother mycroft .
here are the papers , you see .
as i have preserved very full notes of all these cases , and was myself personally engaged in many of them , it may be imagined that it is no easy task to know which i should select to lay before the public .
so i stayed to look after it .
for an hour i sat pondering over it in the gloom , until at last a weeping maid brought in a lamp , and close at her heels came my friend trevor , pale but composed , with these very papers which lie upon my knee held in his grasp .
i heard a sharp intake of his breath and the cigar fell from his fingers .
poor devil !
i have chaffed them so much that they would never have let me hear the end of it .
but a cripple !
my maid , theresa , sleeps above my room .
but i have told you everything .
i suggested .
i should judge that the older of them has not been there more than a few months .
here they are !
i shall let you have a report before evening , but i warn you in advance that you have little to expect .
i feared as much ,
we have boxed the compass among us .
dinner was over , and the table cleared before holmes alluded to the matter again .
we 're hunting in couples again , doctor , you see ,
what does he want ?
for example , you have frequently seen the steps which lead up from the hall to this room .
the whole of europe is an armed camp .
the little man started , and turned his malignant eyes upon my friend .
on the contrary , watson , you can see everything .
it is my treatment of poor morstan 's orphan .
black sleeves .
i think , watson , we can discuss this business better in our own quarters .
she could not go back .
tell him you know someone has been here .
yes , it 's rather an uncanny place altogether .
finally , i went to the landlord , who is an accountant living on the ground floor , and i asked him if he could tell me what had become of the red headed league .
baldwin stood with his hands on his hips looking at mcmurdo .
godfrey staunton appears to have been a poor man .
it 's a police matter , mr holmes !
god bless you , sir , and thank you from my heart !
there were six troopers and six of us , so it was a close thing , but we emptied four of their saddles at the first volley .
my time is from ten at night to six in the morning .
no , i came straight away for you .
let us now explore the parts which lie behind it .
what can you gather from this old battered felt ?
thank you .
then the door crashed to , the key turned once more , and all was silence .
the victims of persecution had now turned persecutors on their own account , and persecutors of the most terrible description .
your case is not complete , then ?
that 's his bedroom ,
thank heaven that i had the sense to turn away from him and to marry a better , if poorer , man .
i cried , locking the door , and shaking the key in his face .
you can serve him .
the police are making the mistake of concentrating their attention upon the second , because it happens to be the one which is actually criminal .
you are joking .
simon the younger brother and sister of the bridegroom , and lady alicia whittington .
the colonel had been sitting in the dining room , but hearing that his wife had returned he joined her in the morning room .
he returned with a large book , one of the logbooks which formed a line upon the shelves .
if it were not for the late sir charles baskerville and some other kind hearts i might have starved for all that my father cared .
they were walking slowly along in deep conversation , and i saw her making quick little movements of her hands as if she were very earnest in what she was saying , while he listened intently , and once or twice shook his head in strong dissent .
the watch has been recently cleaned , which robs me of my most suggestive facts .
in the card case is a note .
my brother is very anxious to have the hall inhabited , for he thinks it is for the good of the poor folk upon the moor .
and the fog gave us little time to receive him .
it 's not a time to stick at trifles .
had n't you better come and ask yourself ?
he must have been a very poor burglar .
mrs hudson had appeared with a lady 's card upon her salver .
you must yourself have remarked how worn , wrinkled , and stained they were .
he was quite sharp enough to see that .
you can see where it used to be ?
mud colored clouds drooped sadly over the muddy streets .
six out and six back .
how could i have mistook you ?
i can tell it to you all in one sentence ,
well , i found my plans very seriously menaced .
dirty looking rascals , but i suppose every one has some little immortal spark concealed about him .
the affair happened immediately after his departure .
and his name is ?
when we had feasted our eyes we took them all out and made a list of them .
thank you .
then if it was removed it was while you were within a dozen yards of it ?
anybody supplying any information to the whereabouts of a greek gentleman named paul kratides , from athens , who is unable to speak english , will be rewarded .
it 's the chain between that we are going to trace .
, and then came several sheets of numbers .
halloa , watson !
she was a large , impassive , heavy featured woman with a stern set expression of mouth .
that 's all right , my lass , said i , putting out my hand towards her in a kindly way , but she had it in both hers in an instant , and they burned as if they were in a fever .
and i have a piece of work for us both to night which , if we can bring it to a successful conclusion , will in itself justify a man 's life on this planet .
again a startled look came over the somewhat vacuous face of miss mary sutherland .
chubb lock to the door .
call them in , that i may greet them .
you have explained all but one thing ,
yes , sir , don murillo , the tiger of san pedro ,
holmes was standing on the door step , with his hands in his pockets , smoking his pipe .
colour of his eyes ?
for an instant he sat in silent amazement .
you interest me extremely ,
lucknow is rather better than a hundred miles to the east , and cawnpore about as far to the south .
slowly the shadows darkened over the long , sombre face of the old house .
i ejaculated .
the book , however , had been left in the billiard room , so i pulled on my dressing gown and started off to get it .
as he spoke , the man , puffing and blowing , rushed at our door and pulled at our bell until the whole house resounded with the clanging .
i thought of the salt that i have been working upon .
for england , home and beauty eh , watson ?
pierrot .
they were admirable things for the observer excellent for drawing the veil from men 's motives and actions .
what is he like , this vincent spaulding ?
what are you doing here ?
they are very commonplace .
i am six feet high , and i could do it with an effort .
only yesterday i saw one of the moor ponies wander into it .
they tell me that the views from birlstone ridge over the weald are very remarkable .
what you can have to speak about which affects me personally in a very intimate fashion .
he shrieked ,
have you had any other admirers ?
it was a slight , sir , a public slight ,
there are not such a very great number of civilians , and a deformed man was sure to have attracted attention .
it 's only four hours a day , and i should not think of leaving , ' said i .
it was a very large chamber , lined with innumerable volumes , which had overflowed from the shelves and lay in piles in the corners , or were stacked all round at the base of the cases .
i have inquired at every point where it might be , and i am sure that there is no danger to be apprehended .
i followed him with a dour face .
you did notice it , then ?
one could hardly hope for any upon so dry a day .
that is quite correct , ' i answered ' but you will excuse me if i say that i cannot see how all this bears upon my professional qualifications .
there are but three ,
an orchard surrounded it , but the trees , as is usual upon the moor , were stunted and nipped , and the effect of the whole place was mean and melancholy .
i came here to visit mr oberstein .
i tiptoed down the path and stooped behind the low wall which surrounded the stunted orchard .
excuse me ,
behind me as i passed from the flat i heard holmes 's high , thin voice in some delirious chant .
it is a very delicate question ,
miss morrison is a little ethereal slip of a girl , with timid eyes and blond hair , but i found her by no means wanting in shrewdness and common sense .
i should like now to have a few words with the nurse , theresa .
on your knees and then i 'll tell you what your punishment may be .
what did you do ?
now , i knew that them two houses in lauriston gardens was empty on account of him that owns them who will n't have the drains seen to , though the very last tenant what lived in one of them died o typhoid fever .
lie number one ,
that razor brain blunted and rusted with inaction .
i see , he might have proved an alibi .
do not imagine that it was a very unheard of idea .
though i have no doubt that the first editions of the evening papers are out already with full details .
most certainly .
it covers two continents , concerns two groups of mysterious persons , and is further complicated by the highly respectable presence of our friend , scott eccles , whose inclusion shows me that the deceased garcia had a scheming mind and a well developed instinct of self preservation .
great heaps of slag and dumps of cinders loomed up on each side , with the high shafts of the collieries towering above them .
on reaching the boundary wall toby ran along , whining eagerly , underneath its shadow , and stopped finally in a corner screened by a young beech .
so swift , silent , and furtive were his movements , like those of a trained blood hound picking out a scent , that i could not but think what a terrible criminal he would have made had he turned his energy and sagacity against the law , instead of exerting them in its defense .
a tall man had stepped from the shadow of the porch to open the door of the wagonette .
all these things have by one night 's work been thoroughly cleared .
it is , as i have said , a labyrinth of an old house , especially the original wing , which is now practically uninhabited but we ransacked every room and cellar without discovering the least sign of the missing man .
it was black enough before against this young man , but our inquiries make it blacker ,
few of them would dare to set foot in the grounds , far less try to force their way into the cabin .
mr gregson ,
where is the key , my man ?
jonathan , with his wooden leg , is utterly unable to reach the lofty room of bartholomew sholto .
by all means .
if any possible doubt remained it is settled by the fact that ' keep away ' and ' from the ' are cut out in one piece .
he led me out to the head of the stair .
we have done a good deal in this direction during the last few years , and there are many noble families to whom we have advanced large sums upon the security of their pictures , libraries , or plate .
the very one , by george !
i do n't quite understand it all yet .
we cannot spare time even to discuss what you have told me .
and on what day did he meet his death ?
you see , my dear watson ,
here i have lain , mr holmes , for over nine weeks , unconscious , and raving with brain fever .
as he turned towards us the glint of the light showed me that he was wearing glasses .
but it was not our prisoner to whom holmes was giving his attention .
there were four feet unaccounted for .
but till the work is done we say nothing .
i had left them all together .
you have seen inside , then ?
i guess we may not meet again until you see me on the stand in the courthouse .
it was a new phase of his character to me , for i had never before seen him show any keen interest in natural objects .
there was in the front a thick and broad hasp , wrought in the image of a sitting buddha .
it is only a reconnaissance .
i rather think that will be helpful ,
at least ,
mycroft holmes was a much larger and stouter man than sherlock .
it was to see sarah that he came to my house first , but soon it was to see us , for he was a man with winning ways , and he made friends wherever he went .
what do you think , dr watson ?
bannister was very much upset by the incident .
this is wednesday evening ,
that is where the rare plants and the butterflies are , if you have the wit to reach them .
he was looking worried and depressed , with tired eyes and a lined forehead .
this he filled with the same oil as that used at the vicarage , and he carefully timed the period which it would take to be exhausted .
so shaken was he that i had to pass my hand under his arm as we went up the stairs , for his knees were trembling under him .
mr holmes , i will tell you everything ,
when i recovered i managed , by a device which had perhaps some little merit of ingenuity , to get old cunningham to write the word ' twelve , ' so that i might compare it with the ' twelve ' upon the paper .
watson will n't allow that i know anything of art but that is mere jealousy because our views upon the subject differ .
when i reached this place i learned that i was wrong and that it was n't a dime novel after all .
but among them was sir george burnwell .
where is oberstein with the papers ?
after that he gave a long sigh of satisfaction for it seemed to him that he was safe .
thence i saw him at once .
come in ,
there are your three men .
might i trouble you , my dear watson , to draw a little nearer to the window , taking every precaution not to show yourself , and then to look up at our old rooms the starting point of so many of your little fairy tales ?
this man 's reference is to a book .
so much he had learned from dr mortimer .
there were grave events afoot , as the sequel showed , and the coaxing of scott eccles to wisteria lodge had some connection with them .
none at all .
the summons was a brief and urgent one .
i braved him to do his worst .
what for ?
i cannot see how such a message as this could inspire horror .
thank you .
by the way , mr baynes , did you find anything remarkable besides this note in your examination of the house ?
then he lit his pipe , and leaning back in his chair he watched the blue smoke rings as they chased each other up to the ceiling .
the recital of these events must be very painful to you , and perhaps it will make it easier if i tell you what occurred , and you can check me if i make any material mistake .
nothing here ,
we carried her upstairs , laid her on the sofa , and a couple of cups of the strongest coffee soon cleared her brain from the mists of the drug .
so far it seemed clear enough .
he has all the celtic power of quick intuition , but he is deficient in the wide range of exact knowledge which is essential to the higher developments of his art .
you understand !
then in the name of lodge , vermissa , i welcome you to its privileges and debates .
only for one instant did the master spy glare at this strangely irrelevant inscription .
i turned , expecting to see dr mortimer , but to my surprise it was a stranger who was pursuing me .
i was asking because it is likely that he may have given some description of this fellow birdy edwards then we could get on his trail .
yes , he has .
a few good cases and the reputation which i had won in the hospital brought me rapidly to the front , and during the last few years i have made him a rich man .
we could not explain the absence of a ticket .
the dictionary is , i fear , inadmissible for the same reason .
now , mr holmes , you have got the facts .
it has done harm to many and good to none not even to yourself .
it was only the day before our wedding that she said those very words to me .
he rocked to and fro in his agony of indecision .
between us we soon supplied his wants , and then over a belated supper we explained to the baronet as much of our experience as it seemed desirable that he should know .
and so in ten minutes i had left my armchair and cheery sitting room behind me , and was speeding eastward in a hansom on a strange errand , as it seemed to me at the time , though the future only could show how strange it was to be .
he has been with douglas ever since he took the manor house five years ago .
i had n't much time to make it all clear to barker and to my wife but they understood enough to be able to help me .
tonga then pulled up the rope , closed the window , and made off the way that he had come .
what are promises to such people as these ?
it is true that ' for mrs henry baker ' was printed upon a small card which was tied to the bird 's left leg , and it is also true that the initials ' h .
shortly after our return to england my mother died she was killed eight years ago in a railway accident near crewe .
suddenly , as i looked ahead , the gleam of metal caught my eye from amid the thick gorse bushes .
yes , i did .
tell me everything , then ,
i suggested .
he thundered ,
whoever wrote that note was the man who brought william kirwan out of his bed at that hour .
and you too .
whatever comes of it in the future , you have done enough .
what can he know of our affairs ?
name , you say , is assumed .
these three glasses upon the sideboard have been untouched , i suppose ?
two weeks ago i was passing this place , when i chanced to look back over my shoulder , and about two hundred yards behind me i saw a man , also on a bicycle .
for an instant it had crossed my mind that perhaps what she really feared was that he might come to harm , for i could not doubt that she knew who this man was , and what he meant by these strange signals .
i 'm one , anyhow .
excellent , mr holmes that is better than your idea of a blind .
two doors opened out of it to the left and to the right .
drebber of cleveland , corresponding with the e .
these papers ,
exactly ,
he had tied his cord to the hook on which the heavy lamp used to hang , and he had jumped off from the top of the very box that he showed us yesterday .
that 's what i want to ascertain .
why should this servant be so anxious to master this old formula ?
but i want to know why the word ' moor ' should have been written ?
our day 's work has been quite long enough .
my end is that the crime was committed half an hour earlier than reported that mrs douglas and barker are both in a conspiracy to conceal something that they aided the murderer 's escape or at least that they reached the room before he escaped and that they fabricated evidence of his escape through the window , whereas in all probability they had themselves let him go by lowering the bridge .
then i went into the back yard and smoked a pipe and wondered what it would be best to do .
he was forever ill treating her , and she too proud to complain .
they are as jealous as a pair of professional beauties .
we both ascended , followed by the doctor .
i think we gain a little ,
in the three other cases you will be shown a heap of paper and you will look for this page of the times among it .
they may do what they like , but i 'll checkmate them still , ' said he with an oath .
i will conceal nothing from you .
perhaps you would rather do the questioning , mr mac ?
you see , there is not a glimmer of light in any of the windows , and everything is working splendidly .
holmes shrugged his shoulders .
they were numerous , resolute , and well armed .
what is the alley like ?
what are your questions ?
she explains that by the difference between a ' bus and a hansom .
to a poor bookworm and invalid like myself such a blow is paralyzing .
nothing else ?
now , if you will have the great goodness to open that door very quietly , we will soon make him cut a much more respectable figure .
now , if this letter were loose no , it can n't be loose but if it is n't loose , where can it be ?
idiot that i was !
cried gregson , triumphantly .
have you noticed anything amiss with them of late ?
the facts are briefly these : some five years ago , during a lengthy visit to warsaw , i made the acquaintance of the well known adventuress , irene adler .
it 's my way .
then who are you ?
you remember the small affair of uriah and bathsheba ?
ah , there 's the point !
certainly , if you wish it .
a few minutes elapsed , as you remember , before the sleepy commissionnaire drew your attention to the bell , and those were just enough to give the thief time to make his escape .
i do n't see why i should trust you any more than you trust me .
he must have done so .
if you fail me , then my honor as well as my position are forever forfeited .
he spread out the papers upon the table , and gave little darting glances from one to the other .
neither he did ,
inside was a large room in which fifty workers were carving or moulding .
have you been on the moor already ?
you see , mr holmes ,
he waited three days longer , and then his piety or his superstition drove him to try once more .
i believe that it was an excuse to move me from my room .
have you never heard of the boss ?
did you correspond with sir charles ?
should i ever marry , watson , i should hope to inspire my wife with some feeling which would prevent her from being walked off by a housekeeper when my corpse was lying within a few yards of her .
they were always very careful , i observed , to turn my face away from the window , so that i became consumed with the desire to see what was going on behind my back .
it is my belief , watson , founded upon my experience , that the lowest and vilest alleys in london do not present a more dreadful record of sin than does the smiling and beautiful countryside .
the crime was committed before twelve last night .
pull yourself together .
but we have so much that it will be our own fault if we cannot get the rest .
you may be sure that i took some precautions .
circumstantial evidence is a very tricky thing ,
then tell me about it .
she cried , with a proper spirit .
six plaster casts of napoleon were drying in the passage .
he cried .
when the offer was first made , i little thought the turn which events might take .
that is not very tempting .
what do you think about it , mr sherlock holmes ?
if i am in the hands of the law , let things be done in a legal way .
she looked up at his dark , fierce face , and laughed saucily .
there 's three folk come out since he went in , but i 'll swear he was n't one of them .
where are the gems ?
milverton 's smile broadened and his eyes twinkled humorously .
if a man drew up a will which he did not intend ever to be effective , he might do it so .
and i feel dissatisfied .
at greenwich we were about three hundred paces behind them .
ah , watson ,
well , have you solved it ?
dr watson is my friend and partner .
imagine my surprise , then , when on looking at miss cushing i perceived that her ear corresponded exactly with the female ear which i had just inspected .
and yet you have seen .
but if this is true , then the case is at an end .
anyone who had the design to alarm these people would be compelled to place his very face against the glass before he could be seen .
ah , you rogue !
it was absolutely and completely empty .
god help me , i would not have them ashamed of their father .
well , it 's printed on the board above your head .
could this have any connection with the crime ?
i should be ungrateful if i were not , seeing what i gained through one of them ,
so i have heard .
very likely not but i can quickly show you a close connection .
roughly pyramidal in shape and hollowed out , i perceive .
n . and the date . holmes laid it on the table and examined it in his minute way , while hopkins and i gazed over each shoulder .
but how about the chance of his holding someone up before he goes ?
the cast was taken in two moulds from each side of the face , and then these two profiles of plaster of paris were joined together to make the complete bust .
if killing is murder , then god knows there is murder and to spare .
i 'm just loving it .
you wonder ,
five big corporations and the two railroads have taken the thing up in dead earnest .
while there was a chance of recovering it i was ready to devote my life to the one object .
until i am told which page and which book i am powerless .
it was one of the first solutions which occurred to me , but i was soon able to corroborate the doctor 's tale .
sally will be a glad woman this night .
it 's a woman 's wedding ring .
that we shall be of more use in london than in norbury .
one man sat by the stern , with something black between his knees over which he stooped .
last night , about two in the morning , i was aroused by a stealthy step passing my room .
how came the letter back in the box ?
i walked over to camberwell in the evening to report our ill success to the ladies , and on my return i found holmes dejected and somewhat morose .
she spoke in rapid and fluent but very unconventional english , which , for the sake of clearness , i will make grammatical .
kindly let me have the facts , mr munro ,
one or two of his neighbours pulled up their sleeves and showed their own lodge marks .
they must , he reflected , be awaiting him anxiously , for he had been absent nearly five hours .
a gold watch , no .
oh , yes .
you perceive several places where it has passed across and obliterated the more shallow mark of the front one .
into your clothes and come !
this must be the first :
my name is sherlock holmes .
but certainly i may claim my four years in this country have not been unproductive .
you make too much of it , dr watson ,
i tried to draw my companion 's attention to them but he gave a little ejaculation of impatience , and continued to stare into the street .
i dashed from my chair , threw my arms round holmes , and together we lurched through the door , and an instant afterwards had thrown ourselves down upon the grass plot and were lying side by side , conscious only of the glorious sunshine which was bursting its way through the hellish cloud of terror which had girt us in .
i carried my report to where he sat in the old tapestry hung dining room with his two prisoners before him .
it 's six now , so if you care for a stroll this beautiful evening i shall be very happy to introduce you to two curiosities .
i trust that you had no more of those nervous attacks .
the emotional qualities are antagonistic to clear reasoning .
and a new sound mingled with it , a deep , muttered rumble , musical and yet menacing , rising and falling like the low , constant murmur of the sea .
but this one comes from london , and therefore we cannot count upon delay .
yes , i have been guilty of several monographs .
then stretching himself upon his face and leaning his chin upon his hands , he made a careful study of the trampled mud in front of him .
holmes glanced at it , and then handed it to me .
it is a most mysterious business .
yes , sir
the three most essential are gone stolen , vanished .
yes , i think that we should be more useful there at the present juncture .
there is a thread here which we had not yet grasped and which might lead us through the tangle .
well , sir , there 's the box room opposite .
when i observed that the knot was one which is popular with sailors , that the parcel had been posted at a port , and that the male ear was pierced for an earring which is so much more common among sailors than landsmen , i was quite certain that all the actors in the tragedy were to be found among our seafaring classes .
this resolution of mine was not due to any lack of material , since i have notes of many hundreds of cases to which i have never alluded , nor was it caused by any waning interest on the this remarkable man .
because we expected to see an advertisement from you giving your address .
milverton laughed , but fear vibrated in his voice .
there you are ,
lestrade seems to have observed something of interest .
quick , man , if you love me !
the purchase will be completed in a week , and meanwhile you will remain in birmingham and make yourself useful .
suddenly my companion 's voice broke in upon my thoughts :
what 's this mark ?
the fog still hung about and screened us with its friendly shade .
you are not very vulnerable from above ,
that can be done in a very few words , mr holmes .
there , now !
holmes !
i have no doubt at all that he had left it there .
when i reached the end i stood at bay .
then you 'll get your job , i guess .
that would suit me very well ,
finally , on the top corridor , which ran outside three untenanted bedrooms , he again was seized with a spasm of merriment .
i know nothing further of the matter .
had he observed a carriage the night before waiting for me ?
faith , he 's right there ,
the laconic style may be to conceal the absence of knowledge of english .
i distinctly saw the gleam of it as he turned to run .
that is the point .
a planet might as well leave its orbit .
beyond these signs of his activity , however , which i merely shared with all the readers of the daily press , i knew little of my former friend and companion .
the less you know , friend morris , the easier your conscience will be , and the better you will sleep .
it was you , councillor .
here 's a day in advance .
a fairly complete record , watson !
next day we were picked up by the brig hotspur , bound for australia , whose captain found no difficulty in believing that we were the survivors of a passenger ship which had foundered .
that , however , was out of the question .
and how in the world has he got away without it ?
i picked up the morning paper from the ground
the old woman was pacing up and down with a scared look and restless picking fingers , but the sight of miss morstan appeared to have a soothing effect upon her .
the bride gave me a sovereign , and i mean to wear it on my watch chain in memory of the occasion .
james stanger is an old man .
it was a clumsy introduction , and the lady made me feel it .
and you , watson , see what comes of abandoning your charge !
in my position you can readily understand that it is unwise to place one 's self under obligations .
you have never seen this open .
he continued , seeing my look of incredulity .
you must leave that to me .
she told him how she had traced him , reproached him .
old steiler was standing at the porch of his hotel .
the knife was only meant as a tool .
i cried ,
he lodges on the floor above me , and i have some slight acquaintance with him , which led him to come to me in his perplexity .
dr sterndale raised his giant figure , bowed gravely , and walked from the arbour .
by george !
i shall enter that cottage , and i shall probe the matter to the bottom .
have you taken anything off this shelf , hopkins ?
a gothic arched door led to a worn stone staircase .
there had been some talking in gruff voices outside , and now mrs hudson opened the door to say that there were three men inquiring for captain basil .
after wilson took delhi and sir colin relieved lucknow the back of the business was broken .
often , if i felt lonesome , i used to turn out the lamp in the surgery , and then , standing there , i could hear their talk and watch their play .
even baskerville fell silent and pulled his overcoat more closely around him .
the sea air , sunshine , and patience , watson all else will come .
sholto was , on his own confession , with his brother last night .
i have discovered a suggestive fact , that is all .
i have been standing here for a quarter of an hour , sir , only one person has passed during that time a woman , tall and elderly , with a paisley shawl .
at least it cannot be your health ,
look at that !
that the coroner in his concluding remarks was rather severe upon young mccarthy .
on the contrary , i think we are particularly hot upon the trail , sir henry .
the left arm of your jacket is spattered with mud in no less than seven places .
mrs straker tells us that derbyshire was a friend of her husband 's and that occasionally his letters were addressed here .
forget what ?
evil indeed is the man who has not one woman to mourn him .
i thought you might be a little out of your depth .
on the one hand , i was definitely engaged and had a hundred pounds in my pocket on the other , the look of the offices , the absence of name on the wall , and other of the points which would strike a business man had left a bad impression as to the position of my employers .
think of my father !
closed and padlocked .
the sight of it was to me like a fire in a snow storm .
the man is certainly a country practitioner .
how 's the arm ?
he stood on the bank with his back to me , and his carbine on his shoulder .
we will go to the gate and share the watch with mahomet singh .
it seemed to me that something like a wink quivered for an instant over one of mr baynes 's tiny eyes .
are you the parties who come with miss morstan ?
and then ?
but i know that i shall never be easy in my mind until i know what has become of my poor man with the sticking plaster upon his face .
that , interesting and indeed essential as these details are , my inquiries must go more to the root of things .
which is yours ?
perhaps he does .
it fairly shook me , sir i 'd have half killed tonga for it if he had not scrambled off .
there is no object in our following them ,
nothing .
yes , sir
it would prevent me from taking a second dose of cocaine .
from this point the track sweeps downward to bartons crossing , helmdale , and the purely agricultural county of merton .
the naturalist 's angry gestures showed that the lady was included in his displeasure .
at dusk we saw dr grimesby roylott drive past , his huge form looming up beside the little figure of the lad who drove him .
macdonald sat with his chin on his hands and his great sandy eyebrows bunched into a yellow tangle .
it was midday when we found ourselves at the scene of the tragedy , and , under my companion 's guidance , we made our way at once to hudson street .
do come !
oh , but he had only picked it up to look at it .
what for ?
to be sure , the secret must be there .
the moon shone clear above them , and they rode swiftly abreast , taking that course which the maid must needs have taken if she were to reach her own home .
an annuity of ten thousand pounds .
his hands were invariably blotted with ink and stained with chemicals , yet he was possessed of extraordinary delicacy of touch , as i frequently had occasion to observe when i watched him manipulating his fragile philosophical instruments .
there is a stove .
when i draw your attention to the strong t 's of ' at ' and ' to ' , and ask you to compare them with the weak ones of ' quarter ' and ' twelve , ' you will instantly recognize the fact .
i 'll run down to mr beddoes in hampshire .
that was my idea when i put it in .
i thought i knew the glint of your eye , though .
could you not follow it ?
here it is .
i tracked him over from new york , and i 've been close to him for a week in london , waiting some excuse to get my hand on his collar .
i had a telegram from the head of the local police before i left the school this morning .
i think that the change would do you good , and you are always so interested in mr sherlock holmes ' cases .
we have got our case one of the most remarkable in our collection .
was there no escape from the invisible network which was drawn all round them .
when should i take over my new duties ?
in your friendship , certainly .
there was silence in the room .
by the way , your instructions to me never to allow sir henry to go out alone will become very much more onerous if a love affair were to be added to our other difficulties .
absolutely ?
you 've had enough .
still , of course , if you said nothing to any one about the treaty these inquiries are irrelevant .
no , i do n't .
you do me too much honour ,
that however is surely impossible .
he gasped .
the people at the inn were alert all night , awaiting his coming , and one or other of them seems to have continually had an eye upon the road .
soames hesitated .
holmes picked one out , but it was as hard to read by the flickering fire , and he drew out his little dark lantern , for it was too dangerous , with milverton in the next room , to switch on the electric light .
i learned a little of his lingo from him , and this made him all the fonder of me .
these were the main points of the servants ' evidence .
i did not see either barker or mrs douglas .
you 'll find old jacob shafter that runs it as honest a man as lives in this township .
will you come ?
you 've come to that already , have you ?
no , i have seen none .
it was for this reason that he took her to london with him .
the other secret agents whom i have named live in the extreme west end .
by an examination of the ground i gained the trifling details which i gave to that imbecile lestrade , as to the personality of the criminal .
this is a very unexpected turn of affairs ,
why , i wonder at that , for you are eligible yourself for one of the vacancies .
holmes stopped him at the head of the stair .
but really i do n't know how you deduced it .
i confess that i have seldom known a case which at first sight presented a more singular problem .
yes , they have shown extraordinary energy .
by sitting upon five pillows and consuming an ounce of shag .
the wagonette was paid off and ordered to return to coombe tracey forthwith , while we started to walk to merripit house .
it may prove to be of some use .
we got away with the gold , became wealthy men , and made our way over to england without being suspected .
see here , mister !
i have done no harm .
it seems to be a curious class of custom that is done by the fighting cock ,
there was a bunk at one end , a sea chest , maps and charts , a picture of the sea unicorn , a line of logbooks on a shelf , all exactly as one would expect to find it in a captain 's room .
in some way i had excited the suspicion of lopez , the secretary .
then anyone could have got over it ?
he shouted ,
it is a mistake to think that that little room has elastic walls and can distend to any extent .
i have made a small study of tattoo marks and have even contributed to the literature of the subject .
cried theresa .
very strange !
i have watched the fellow more than once before ever i thought of making his professional acquaintance , and i have been surprised at the harvest which he has reaped in a short time .
have you turned the case over in your mind ?
the spring had come with running brooks and blossoming trees .
he pushed it towards me .
it 's an old acquaintance of mine who has come down in the world , said she .
now , it was past three o'clock , according to mrs smith , when they got the boat .
we had turned off the road , and were making our way up the hill , when , looking in the direction of holdernesse hall , i saw a cyclist coming swiftly along .
his face was as impassive as ever , but his lids had drooped more heavily over his eyes , and his smoke had curled up more thickly from his pipe to emphasize each curious episode in the doctor 's tale .
it shall all be done ,
no one knows where his grip may fall , for he is far too rich and far too cunning to work from hand to mouth .
sterndale gave a violent start and looked at holmes in amazement .
it is , indeed but it 's not for me to point out the man that is to be murdered .
there is so keen a sympathy between us that i should know if evil came upon him .
her visit was , i remember , extremely unwelcome to holmes , for he was immersed at the moment in a very abstruse and complicated problem concerning the peculiar persecution to which john vincent harden , the well known tobacco millionaire , had been subjected .
why did he not do so ?
besides , besides
if you do , they will instantly shut up like an oyster .
five to fifteen against desborough !
the house was forbidden him but when he tapped at the window ettie came out to him .
when does he lunch ?
a dim line of ancestors , in every variety of dress , from the elizabethan knight to the buck of the regency , stared down upon us and daunted us by their silent company .
holmes held out a small chip with the letters nn and a space of clear wood after them .
and are you prepared to meet the cost ?
i think that your course of action is an excellent one .
so i trust , watson , so i trust ,
the lights inside the house had all been extinguished , and from the darkened window ferrier peered over the fields which had been his own , and which he was now about to abandon for ever .
brother mcmurdo claims urgency ,
but surely , surely , we shall hear something .
glad to hear you have seen some light .
what regiment ?
we shall then look thoroughly into the affair .
in the great old fashioned fireplace behind the high iron dogs a log fire crackled and snapped .
there is nothing upon which we can apply for a warrant .
riding slowly in this fashion they came at last upon the hounds .
you amaze me .
oh , indeed !
the poor devil has certainly got himself into very deep water , and it 's a question whether we shall ever be able to get him ashore .
stand with me here upon the terrace , for it may be the last quiet talk that we shall ever have .
where is he , then ?
during my school days i had been intimately associated with a lad named percy phelps , who was of much the same age as myself , though he was two classes ahead of me .
he 's always there from quarter to five to twenty to eight .
it was a large and bright dwelling , rather a villa than a cottage , with a considerable garden which was already , in that cornish air , well filled with spring flowers .
the first business on the agenda paper ,
i freely admit the difficulties ,
to his eyes all seemed beautiful , but to me a tinge of melancholy lay upon the countryside , which bore so clearly the mark of the waning year .
i hurried to him , but he passed away without having ever recovered his consciousness .
that she had recovered from her faint .
i guess it is ourselves and not the house that we have to blame !
do you understand ?
sometimes holmes would hurry on , sometimes stop dead , and once he made quite a little detour into the meadow .
the end may have been so ,
it seems natural , does it not ?
of course you will be wanted at the trial .
absolutely no clue in them to mr angel , save that he quotes balzac once .
we were as good as our word , for it was just seven when we reached the copper beeches , having put up our trap at a wayside public house .
but we know .
but but
a box by chance ?
it is fortunate , for you will perhaps be able to post me up .
this is the brixton road , and that is the house , if i am not very much mistaken .
a client , then ?
a doctor 's general practitioner , i perceive ,
from the first he made it evident , by his open admiration , that the daughter of the house had won his heart from the instant that he had set eyes upon her beauty and her grace .
i dashed in , and on into the dressing room beyond .
why , watson , let us put their own devilish trade mark upon them .
where shall we know him ?
a robbery has been committed , ' i gasped .
he turned his bulldog eyes upon our visitor .
to tell the truth , it has ,
this process has been going on now for ten long years .
these relics have a history then ?
some of the general public were present , then ?
you 've got good cause to be , anyhow .
i never thought of such villainy !
my suggestion is that we lock this door , leave things as we found them , go with this lady to her room , and form our opinion after we have heard what it is that she has to say to us .
the hill folk up there murdered the rebels who had me , and i became their slave for a time until i escaped but instead of going south i had to go north , until i found myself among the afghans .
simon in particular .
that you , watson ?
that is a matter of great practical interest to the scientific detective , especially in cases of unclaimed bodies , or in discovering the antecedents of criminals .
i cannot tell .
cried mcmurdo .
can you see anything ?
the sun was just grazing the top of the oak .
on his arrival he promptly found and arrested the man upon whom suspicion naturally rested .
he was within three yards of us , this sinister figure , and i had braced myself to meet his spring , before i realized that he had no idea of our presence .
he bowed , and , turning away without observing the hand which the king had stretched out to him , he set off in my company for his chambers .
simon shrugged his shoulders and raised his eyebrows .
as year succeeded to year she grew taller and stronger , her cheek more rudy , and her step more elastic .
cried gregson eagerly .
you can now disappear from the scene .
the remark had a singular effect upon his companion .
even when she was just a baby her wee hand seemed to lead me down the right path as nothing else had ever done .
i congrat
i touched holmes on the arm , and he turned his masked face in that direction .
do you in turn be as frank with me .
he had waited , and then making his way round to the top of the cliff , he had endeavoured to succeed where his comrade had failed .
i did not tell him how urgent the danger was , for i knew that he could do no good here , but i sent the truth to the girl 's father , and he very injudiciously communicated it to godfrey .
cried the inspector .
how did you know it was there ?
i am saved !
you felt so strongly about it that i knew you could not think of beecher without thinking of that also .
all we wish you to do is to examine the machine and to let us know what is wrong with it .
young jefferson hope rode on with his companions , gloomy and taciturn .
facts are better than mere theories , after all .
they are all typewritten .
well , if it is good enough for the inspector , it is good enough for me ,
and to start to morrow morning ?
commission .
it will be a great start for you .
the stable lane ?
i fear that i bore you with these details , but i have to let you see my little difficulties , if you are to understand the situation .
it is the purest accident .
the other belonged to the dining room , which was the apartment in which the mysterious affair had occurred .
with these two facts in my possession i felt that either my intelligence or my courage must be deficient if i could not throw some further light upon these dark places .
you must put this piece of paper which you have shown us into the brass box which you have described .
his love for his wife and his trust in her shone in his features .
many people were moving to and fro , most of them muffled in their coats and cravats .
they were admitted by a confederate inside the house .
this woman 's first husband is in that cottage .
i confess that you had one small surprise for me ,
you remember in her statement she said that her sister could smell dr roylott 's cigar .
if those cows had jumped on me he 'd have never got over it .
i dare say you would find a heap of smalls living there now if you were to look .
the questions treated in it were purely naval .
no , sir
this carpet .
we have had some fresh evidence this morning ,
the same great powers which i have turned to the detection of crime he has used for this particular business .
holmes pried it open with his chisel .
was he in any want of money ?
confess , lestrade , that all this is very unlikely .
there 's a cold blooded scoundrel !
you do n't mean that you know where he is ?
that the sudden breaking up of the society was coincident with the disappearance of openshaw from america with their papers .
watson , would you have the kindness to take the paper and to read the paragraph in question ?
he fights for the mere pleasure of fighting and is equally ready to take up either side of a question , so that it is no wonder that he has found it a costly amusement .
but why on earth should you be pursued with such animosity ?
i passed you in a hansom .
the moor is intersected with paths , and the moon was at the full .
i can serve you best by returning to my rooms
do not bring police .
no , alone .
at present it must be admitted that the odd trick is in his possession , and , as you are aware , watson , it is not my habit to leave the game in that condition .
perhaps , mrs moulton , you would like my friend and me to leave the room while you explain this matter ?
he hurried past me and stooped over the dead man .
i heard oaths and the confused sounds of a scuffle .
he threw himself down upon his face with his lens in his hand and crawled swiftly backward and forward , examining minutely the cracks between the boards .
that was all right .
and you did very wisely ,
cried my friend .
i think we should call at scotland yard for inspector gregson , and go straight out to beckenham .
poor mortimer will never see his pet again .
some deep sorrow gnaws ever at her heart .
then he mounted his cycle , and rode away from me down the drive towards the hall .
i might at any moment be seized and searched , and there would be the stone in my waistcoat pocket .
you consider it hopeless !
i take it , watson , that you have no longer a shadow of a doubt as to how these tragedies were produced ?
the first fellow was a bit too active , but the second was caught by the under gardener , and only got away after a struggle .
it had been suggested that they should shoot them both but they were harmless folk who were not connected with the mines , so they were sternly bidden to drive on and keep silent , lest a worse thing befall them .
long afterwards when i had fallen into a light sleep i heard a key turn somewhere in a lock , but i could not tell whence the sound came .
everything was working in my favour , and i swore that it should not be through lack of energy or perseverance that i should miss the chance which fortune had thrown in my way .
the practice is quiet ,
and no advice for me ?
we certainly owe brother mycroft a debt for having introduced us to what promises to be a really very remarkable case .
at the end farthest from the house they thickened into a continuous hedge .
there 's james
the name of the maker , no doubt or his monogram , rather .
rome was not built in a day , and we have lots of money at our backs , though we do n't cut much dash yet in offices .
the rough and tumble work in afghanistan , coming on the top of a natural bohemianism of disposition , has made me rather more lax than befits a medical man .
a rash word or a hasty act was followed by annihilation , and yet none knew what the nature might be of this terrible power which was suspended over them .
who are you to interfere you that are new to the lodge ?
cried mrs forrester .
why , man , you 're crazy ,
well , well , we can n't expect to have it all our own way , watson ,
can you remember any unusual incident in your life just about the time your symptoms began ?
at night , however , he slept alone , and the avenger might find him .
the chart is dated at a time when morstan was brought into close association with convicts .
once would have expected to find a large sum of money in his pocket .
but you have a good dossier there already .
you spent a restless night at your cottage , and you formed certain plans , which in the early morning you proceeded to put into execution .
most interesting !
and yet it was one thing to laugh about it in london , and it is another to stand out here in the darkness of the moor and to hear such a cry as that .
we have taken every possible step , mrs douglas ,
not a word about the jewels came out at the trial , for the rajah had been deposed and driven out of india : so no one had any particular interest in them .
and most of that information came through you ,
a very remarkable note ,
i rushed down i do n't suppose it was thirty seconds before i was in the room .
i was chosen to break up your gang .
look out for me to morrow , about eleven .
the front and back entrances are watched , but with caution we may get away through the side window and across the fields .
i was at the station when the message arrived .
as if a man bent on felony would slam his door so as to wake a household .
as it was square and unfastened it was easily done .
did he find out where he hid , or what he was doing ?
every minute seems an hour while i live in this state of horrible suspense .
a look of surprise passed over his face , and at the first quiver of his eyebrows my heart turned to lead in my breast .
then , having taken another look round , i returned to my carriage , where i found that the porter , in spite of the ticket , had given me my decrepit italian friend as a traveling companion .
why , if it is n't mr phelps , of the office !
as to the possibility of there being an understanding between the burglar and the servant , and this being a note of appointment from one to the other , is an ingenious and not entirely impossible supposition .
whispered sir henry .
what is it ?
that is really all that i can tell you , gentlemen , and i trust that it will not be necessary for me to go over so painful a story again .
i 'm not much of a visitor , brother mcmurdo ,
i could not tamper with the facts .
apparently ,
he read .
yes , it is an interesting instance of a throwback , which appears to be both physical and spiritual .
i say it is .
one other point : if a clerk in this office desired to sell the plans , would it not be simpler to copy the plans for himself than to take the originals , as was actually done ?
you would hardly forget it , would you , sir , for i 've seldom seen an uglier .
then , grasping our hands , he made a remarkable statement to us , in a voice which was broken as much by emotion as by pain .
good has come out of evil , however , for the barmaid , finding from the papers that he is in serious trouble and likely to be hanged , has thrown him over utterly and has written to him to say that she has a husband already in the bermuda dockyard , so that there is really no tie between them .
i say that i have solved it .
there is no use writing of the details of that dreadful event .
it was evening before i left camberwell , and quite dark by the time i reached home .
the two detectives stared at him in amazement .
he had once been a skilful sculptor and had earned an honest living , but he had taken to evil courses and had twice already been in jail once for a petty theft , and once , as we had already heard , for stabbing a fellow countryman .
he inquired how we were left , and on finding that we were very poor , he suggested that i should come and teach music to his only daughter , aged ten .
because it seemed to me to have an indirect bearing upon the mystery of woodman 's lee .
from the monday to the thursday i doubt whether it was ever possible from our windows in baker street to see the loom of the opposite houses .
yes , father , i delivered it .
very interesting very interesting , indeed !
he used the duchess 's name , and in that way got the boy to come .
she was drugged with opium .
yes , you are quite right .
but really , in this matter of the length
the place was locked , but holmes removed a circle of glass and turned the key from the inside .
a sudden idea seemed to occur to holmes , for he leaned forward and touched the lad upon the sleeve .
what were your next steps ?
if you prefer a public explanation , it must come sooner or later ,
here we are .
what was your idea , then ?
he then , by a specious argument , prevented her from going , and so had the chance for which he had waited .
and how did you find out ?
he leaned against the mantelpiece and sucked at the cigar which holmes had handed him .
suppose that i were brooks or woodhouse , or any of the fifty men who have good reason for taking my life , how long could i survive against my own pursuit ?
it may well have been cause and effect .
i came down to sussex with the intention of seeing the captain , but it was at this moment that his terrible death occurred .
perhaps we may make them less so .
a minute later , the grim doctor and ourselves were in the sitting room below .
now , off you go , and come back with a better report next time .
how could they be so sure that the sound of it would not bring someone on to them ?
jones 's energy will be of use to us there , for his view of the case is sure to push itself into the daily press , and the runaways will think that every one is off on the wrong scent .
holmes , the scotland yard jack in office !
it seemed strange talk for a wedding morning , but what has happened since gives a meaning to it .
holmes pushed open the door of the private bar and ordered two glasses of beer from the ruddy faced , white aproned landlord .
i would ask the lodge to choose a trusty committee , mr chairman yourself , if i might suggest it , and brother baldwin here , and five more .
there were footfalls outside , the door opened , and inspector morton appeared .
your advice is very excellent , miss harrison ,
if you offend the one , it is the other vat vill strike you .
for once you have fallen low .
very good .
we 'll soon have a light , ' i said , striking a match and putting it to a wax candle which i had brought with me .
someone had entered the drive .
there will call upon you to night , at a quarter to eight o'clock ,
i could tell you tales of cobbler 's wax which would disgust you with human nature .
the colonel bowed .
stoke moran ?
i could perceive that the track of blood coincided with the track of his feet .
there he intervened , and then it was , colonel walter , that to treason you added the more terrible crime of murder .
yes , sir , he cut himself in shaving yesterday morning .
i had always known that vengeance would be sweet , but i had never hoped for the contentment of soul which now possessed me .
finally , having drawn every other cover and picked up no scent , i tried my luck with the housekeeper .
if you want to hear my story i have no wish to hold it back .
i am sorry to make you the victim of what may seem a mere whim , but on my life , watson , i simply can n't leave that case in this condition .
do you promise , then ?
i was james armitage in my younger days , and you can understand now the shock that it was to me a few weeks ago when your college friend addressed me in words which seemed to imply that he had surprised my secret .
this should put another bird in the cage .
is the poor gentleman much hurt ?
your own feelings overcame you , and you ran across the lawn and broke in upon them .
the policeman has recognized it .
with strained ears the murderers waited .
every word i say is the absolute truth , and how you use it is a matter of no consequence to me .
there is no one in the house except old martha , who has played her part to admiration .
really !
ah , yes , of course !
stanley hopkins had gone down to the village to look into some rumours of a strange woman who had been seen by some children on the chatham road the previous morning .
eat a good breakfast , watson , for i propose to get upon dr armstrong 's trail to day , and once on it i will not stop for rest or food until i run him to his burrow .
a man might as well live in russia as in vermissa while folk like you are running the police .
yes , i bicycle a good deal , mr holmes , and that has something to do with my visit to you to day .
you do n't suppose that the lodge would let a man go free with all its secrets ?
it would be of the greatest interest to me ,
we are in the presence , therefore , of a deliberate conspiracy upon the part of the two people who heard the gunshot of the man barker and of the woman douglas .
lord of the admiralty , chief secretary of state for ' well , well , this man is certainly one of the greatest subjects of the crown !
the situation was a curious one .
but if it is porlock , then it must be something of the very first importance .
and what of irene adler ?
sir henry opened his eyes .
this is the house .
the writer of this note is certainly english .
ha , ha , my boy , a very much more important matter than that !
captain morstan nodded .
i saw her look about her as she came to the charlington hedge .
the fellow had either very long legs or was a most active man ,
what do you think of this , holmes ?
an exception disproves the rule .
see how he has treated me !
however foolish the incident may seem .
i did so , and driven by the draught a coil of gray smoke swirled down the corridor , while the dry straw crackled and flamed .
i thought so ,
and do n't budge , whatever happens whatever happens , do you hear ?
tiptoes !
i would rather never allude to the past , for it is very painful to me .
never better .
there were no signs of violence , no footmarks , no robbery , no record of strangers having been seen upon the roads .
then , come .
i know there is .
and yet as we saw it that autumn morning , it was not its beauty which would be the first thing to impress the observer .
they discovered him a year ago ,
it was impossible to refuse the request of a fellow countrywoman dying in a strange land .
he sank with a deep groan on the settee and buried his face in his manacled hands .
was it all to go for nothing ?
he is after the secretary stangerson , who had no more to do with the crime than the babe unborn .
tell me , frankly , what it is that you do n't like .
god bless you !
in the corner , between the bookcase and the wall , there stood a tall , green safe , the firelight flashing back from the polished brass knobs upon its face .
it suggests that he did not think it was going to be of much practical importance .
his brow was creased with care , and his kindly face was drawn and haggard .
our evening has been by no means wasted .
he was looking very bad quite ghastly .
we can compare notes afterwards , and each will supplement the other .
the ' g ' with the small ' t ' stands for ' gesellschaft , ' which is the german for ' company .
i was on the point of asking him what that work might be , but something in his manner showed me that the question would be an unwelcome one .
but i am here at your request to learn something which you desire to tell me .
gasped the banker .
a man with so large a brain must have something in it .
i knew in my heart that he was dead ,
number , lauriston gardens wore an ill omened and minatory look .
here you are , peterson , run down to the advertising agency and have this put in the evening papers .
his face his dress did n't you notice them ?
a maid showed me in without ceremony , and as i entered the sitting room a lady , who was sitting before a remington typewriter , sprang up with a pleasant smile of welcome .
pray take this chair by the fire , mr baker .
the house seemed to be at his mercy , and he wandered about and did what he chose in it .
the papers had been made up into sealed envelopes , one or two of which had been opened by the police .
jacobs , will you ask the prime minister to come up ?
then there was a wonderful cook , he said , a half breed whom he had picked up in his travels , who could serve an excellent dinner .
we will fix him before he can do any harm .
she will not be able to .
it may be looked upon as the very latest authority .
when a man is lost it is my duty to ascertain his fate , but having done so the matter ends so far as i am concerned , and so long as there is nothing criminal i am much more anxious to hush up private scandals than to give them publicity .
more puzzled than ever , i retraced my steps to kensington .
to right and left of him were the higher lodge officials , the cruel , handsome face of ted baldwin among them .
i can n't forget the look in his eyes when he ran at me this morning , but i must allow that no man could make a more handsome apology than he has done .
i read an inexorable purpose in his gray eyes .
nothing .
why should he ?
there were no papers or memoranda in the murdered man 's pocket , except a single telegram , dated from cleveland about a month ago , and containing the words , ' j .
private detectives are a class with whom i have absolutely no sympathy , but none the less , having heard your name
i am not strong enough yet to stand much noise or excitement .
it is better that i should ask them here than that the matter should pass outside our control .
at last , shortly after nine o'clock , there arrived a messenger with a note :
as to wicked men , i expect you may find that i am as bad as the worst of them before we 're through .
he would not pay you a surprise visit ?
the residents would call me a newcomer .
there cannot be the least doubt that he would have made a murderous attack upon me .
we are going well ,
was a french artist who flourished between the years and .
you have solved it already ?
say that you will be mine , and we will face it out together !
we all sat in silence for some little time after listening to this extraordinary narrative .
give me problems , give me work , give me the most abstruse cryptogram or the most intricate analysis , and i am in my own proper atmosphere .
well , then , supposing that ' c .
large masses of nickel and of tin were discovered stored in an out house , but no coins were to be found , which may have explained the presence of those bulky boxes which have been already referred to .
how was i to get into the room ?
you have nothing else to tell us ?
i seem to have knocked up against something hard .
here 's the record of the tarleton murders , and the case of vamberry , the wine merchant , and the adventure of the old russian woman , and the singular affair of the aluminium crutch , as well as a full account of ricoletti of the club foot , and his abominable wife .
it is the answer !
i shut the hall door behind me .
he paused , and i was surprised , on glancing round to see that he was staring with singular intentness at the lady 's profile .
there 's the advantage of being a builder ,
watson insists that i am the dramatist in real life ,
my accomplishments , sir , may be less than you imagine ,
they had started from their head quarters under cover of darkness , and he would wish to get back before it was broad light .
some joke
a lawyer , is he not , gray headed , and walks with a limp ?
sooner or later they believed that i should come back to my rooms they watched them continuously , and this morning they saw me arrive .
i stayed long enough to make certain that the house was absolutely empty .
your toes are all cramped together .
now , for such a case as the one which has been submitted to us to night , we need certainly to muster all our resources .
burglary !
john ferrier felt that instant death would be better than the suspense which shook his nerves and chilled his heart .
mr cunningham had just got into bed , and mr alec was smoking a pipe in his dressing gown .
on the other hand , it seemed an unthinkable coincidence that a man should dare to enter the room , and that by chance on that very day the papers were on the table .
that 's interesting .
without meaning to hurt either of your feelings , i am bound to say that i consider these men to be more than a match for the official force , and that is why i have not asked your assistance .
you horrify me , trevor !
the baker street address was enough to prove that .
if i get his promise and i 'll let you know if i do i 'd have the whole seven of you come to me by nine o'clock .
he was more like a malignant and cunning ape than a human being , and he always was , ever since he was a young man .
remarkable !
i confess , however , that i am unable to understand how you arrive at the double visit to the optician .
pleaded thaddeus sholto .
no , sir , there was no one .
suddenly , amid all the hubbub of the gale , there burst forth the wild scream of a terrified woman .
it is fortunate for this community that i am not a criminal .
some more facts , please .
the officers conducted him to the cab , but lestrade remained .
with a perfect shriek of delight he rushed to the box , cut the other pill in two , dissolved it , added milk , and presented it to the terrier .
you were wearing , i may remark , the same pair of ribbed tennis shoes which are at the present moment upon your feet .
one of these appeared to leak or to have been broken , for a stream of dark colored liquid had trickled out from it , and the air was heavy with a peculiarly pungent , tar like odor .
she told me to ask you .
the young woman separated one of the forms
he dressed hurriedly and descended to his sitting room .
its outrages were usually preceded by a warning sent to the marked man in some fantastic but generally recognised shape a sprig of oak leaves in some parts , melon seeds or orange pips in others .
mcmurdo shrugged his shoulders .
i shall give directions that you may remain behind when the others go , so that you may copy it at your leisure without fear of being overlooked .
arthur willaby can stay with you .
i rushed down the passage , through the door , and straight into the arms of mr rucastle , who was waiting outside .
drop that pistol !
a higher judge had taken the matter in hand , and jefferson hope had been summoned before a tribunal where strict justice would be meted out to him .
each member of the cabinet was informed of it yesterday , but the pledge of secrecy which attends every cabinet meeting was increased by the solemn warning which was given by the prime minister .
only for the last week or so .
of course he did .
i rose and , leaning over him , stared down at the curious inscription , which ran as follows :
she left her room , therefore , and came into mine , where she sat for some time , chatting about her approaching wedding .
do you mean that you are on the right track ?
the proof was in three long slips .
but i have only just come .
there must be some mistake .
he explained .
i was at my wit 's end , when suddenly the happy thought occurred to me that you were in the town , and i came straight round to put the matter into your hands .
his handsome face was distorted with a spasm of despair , and his hands tore at his hair .
you are the day porter , are you not ?
a bad lookout for you if it is .
upon rising next morning he found , to his surprise , a small square of paper pinned on to the coverlet of his bed just over his chest .
fairly so .
it is time that you kept your promise and gave me a full account of what we are all driving at .
i had grown my beard , and there was no chance of their recognizing me .
mr holmes ,
he lay upon his back , his knees drawn up , a terrible cut upon his head .
i am very delighted to see you !
good bye .
all her woman 's instinct told her that it was not the mere fright of a man who is startled .
a lamp in the fashion of a silver dove was hung from an almost invisible golden wire in the centre of the room .
i ejaculated .
she is an american and came from california with her .
it looks rather narrow for a man to pass .
i thought that it must be when i saw the door open .
his cold and proud nature was always averse , however , from anything in the shape of public applause , and he bound me in the most stringent terms to say no further word of himself , his methods , or his successes a prohibition which , as i have explained , has only now been removed .
can you do without breakfast ?
he seems to have broken through the shrubbery and made for the road .
by the way , do you know what mycroft is ?
it is unkind , and , to speak plainly , has a touch of charlatanism in it .
curious , because , so far as one can trace any footmark in this mud stained corner , one would say it was a more shapely sole .
in another instant he stood at the side of the hole and was hauling after him a companion , lithe and small like himself , with a pale face and a shock of very red hair .
i 'll take you round to him myself .
surely .
no man need be ashamed of such a wife .
however , all this they would learn from his own lips .
i did not !
there was no ticket in his pockets .
i came back
it was a deadly enemy that we made that night .
the more one thinks of it the more mysterious it grows .
suddenly , however , we heard a step behind us , and there was the landlord , his heavy eyebrows drawn over his savage eyes , his swarthy features convulsed with passion .
i love and am loved by a better man than he .
it vanished among the mound heaps , and then appeared again coming slowly in our direction .
holmes examined both it and the indescribable wreck which it had wrought .
art in the blood is liable to take the strangest forms
when we met again next evening , lestrade was furnished with much information concerning our prisoner .
lady st .
in accordance with the scheme which we had formed in order to test our theories
if you squeal on us , bob carruthers , i 'll serve you as you served jack woodley .
the streaming umbrella which he held in his hand , and his long shining waterproof told of the fierce weather through which he had come .
cried holmes , between his teeth .
in short , mr holmes , you would go far before you found a more dangerous man than peter carey , and i have heard that he bore the same character when he commanded his ship .
the sham chaplain came into our cells to exhort us , carrying a black bag , supposed to be full of tracts , and so often did he come that by the third day we had each stowed away at the foot of our beds a file , a brace of pistols , a pound of powder , and twenty slugs .
there was one way and only one in which he offended the susceptibilities of his co religionists .
he continued , glancing over them ,
then he examined the stone ledge and the grass border beyond it .
i do n't know about that ,
therefore he used a holder .
that is important .
it must tend to some end , or else our universe is ruled by chance , which is unthinkable .
there is a drive , then ?
then , with a cry of satisfaction , he bent forward and picked up a little brazen cylinder .
you have already been assaulted ?
that is very interesting .
lestrade looked about him .
my first idea was that i had been the victim of some absurd practical joke .
why so ?
i have been a little pressed of late .
her suspicions became certainties .
the manager , a big blond german , received us civilly and gave a clear answer to all holmes 's questions .
i could only say what was the balance of probability .
every stride of the horses and every turn of the wheels was taking us nearer to our supreme adventure .
my real name is james ryder .
dear me , dear me , how unfortunate !
but here are the regulars : so the auxiliary forces may beat a retreat .
it is selden , the notting hill murderer .
does it not strike you as a little singular that this mccarthy , who appears to have had little of his own , and to have been under such obligations to turner , should still talk of marrying his son to turner 's daughter , who is , presumably , heiress to the estate , and that in such a very cocksure manner , as if it were merely a case of a proposal and all else would follow ?
inspector hill knew him the moment he caught sight of him .
i hope that you are satisfied now ?
it was the height of the reign of terror .
one of these was of weak mind , and we did not dare to trust him , and the other was suffering from jaundice , and could not be of any use to us .
they were anxious to hear what happened .
i went about , however , with a heart which was full of forebodings .
never mind ,
oh , jack , how brave you were !
you 're mighty close about this affair , mr holmes .
he had bought a lamp which was the duplicate of the one which had burned in the room of mortimer tregennis on the morning of the tragedy .
all sunday i was kept hard at work , and yet by monday i had only got as far as h .
you have important information , and you must not walk off .
what am i accused of ?
did you see anything of the yoxley case in the latest editions ?
good morning , miss , and many thanks for having relieved my mind .
that is clearly a signal .
well , well , you need not be downcast for between ourselves i do n't think that either inspector mac or the excellent local practitioner has grasped the overwhelming importance of this incident .
he knows that his only hope of mercy is to produce it safe .
there is no good for you to do .
ah , my god , it is as i feared !
cried the little girl dropping her face in her pinafore and sobbing bitterly .
ferguson remained outside , and the colonel ushered me in .
his head had been smashed to pulp by heavy blows of a sandbag or some such instrument , which had crushed rather than wounded .
every day my heart longs ' bleat , watson unmitigated bleat !
well , we may save the police some little trouble in that direction ,
i suppose there is no doubt that the mark was there yesterday ?
i implore you not to tell him that i came here .
she suddenly whisked her wheels round and dashed straight at him .
did you recognize your coachman ?
i will order a four wheeler .
as i opened my door i seemed to hear a low whistle , such as my sister described , and a few moments later a clanging sound , as if a mass of metal had fallen .
no , thanks .
he had apparently been struck down first from behind , but his assailant had gone on beating him long after he was dead .
it 's a very delicate thing ,
how do you know ?
he found a way out of his difficulties through the chance that sir charles , who had conceived a friendship for him , made him the minister of his charity in the case of this unfortunate woman , mrs laura lyons .
by gar !
come , watson , for we have a good day 's work before us in town .
next he drew forth a pair of boots .
she read his danger in his earnest face .
having , however , at last , satisfied himself as to his identity , the man 's surprise changed to consternation .
mr lestrade , of scotland yard , is acting already in the matter , but he assures me that he sees no objection to your co operation , and that he even thinks that it might be of some assistance .
but how about the foresight and the moral retrogression ?
he would also be the heir to the money unless it were willed otherwise by the present owner , who can , of course , do what he likes with it .
selden found out that he has got a lad who works for him and brings all he needs .
can you tell me where it went to ?
and how have i neglected it ?
mrs oakshott , , brixton road ,
there he was to be found , she was sure of it , at the bar of gold , in upper swandam lane .
then i lashed her in her chair , and frayed out the end of the rope to make it look natural , else they would wonder how in the world a burglar could have got up there to cut it .
there can be no doubt that stapleton exercised an influence over her which may have been love or may have been fear , or very possibly both , since they are by no means incompatible emotions .
my friend spoke in his frankest and most unconcerned manner .
when i arrived at the house ,
holmes struck the door just over the lock with the flat of his foot and it flew open .
i confessed .
there is no lane so vile that the scream of a tortured child , or the thud of a drunkard 's blow , does not beget sympathy and indignation among the neighbours , and then the whole machinery of justice is ever so close that a word of complaint can set it going , and there is but a step between the crime and the dock .
i should be immensely obliged to you .
i will be entirely at your service in three minutes , if i might trespass upon your patience so far .
it was some real valley in which he had lived and in which something terrible had occurred to him , of that i am certain but i can tell you no more .
but the tracks !
clair 's assertion that she had actually seen her husband at the window , he declared that she must have been either mad or dreaming .
but the writing in between is very bad , and there are three places where i cannot read it at all .
when you search a single column for words with which to express your meaning , you can hardly expect to get everything you want .
stangerson has a son , and drebber has a son , and either of them would gladly welcome your daughter to their house .
because it commands so excellent a view of that picturesque pile .
interesting , though elementary ,
strange how the brain controls the brain !
well , you can take it from me you 've no show when they are on your trail .
in his right hand he carried an old fashioned carpet bag , which he placed upon the table .
the murder , however , was clearly made out , and it was certain that we must all have been concerned in it .
that mysterious change is too subtle and too gradual to be measured by dates .
or his son ?
then another and yet another , coming nearer and nearer .
very glad to see you .
footsteps enough , anyhow !
i went as far as the crystal palace , spent an hour in the grounds , and was back in norbury by one o'clock .
you were not yourself at fault at all , then ?
if you cannot keep me after what has passed , then for god 's sake let me give you notice and leave in a month , as if of my own free will .
i sent in my testimonial and application , but without the least hope of getting it .
holmes rubbed his hands .
it ran as follows :
it 's four o'clock .
when did you enter the room ?
colonel ross did not impress me as a man who would be likely to show much mercy in any case .
that is so , mr holmes , though the matter is past and done with .
the name of nauvoo evidently recalled recollections to john ferrier .
cried the black maned bodymaster from the end of the table .
what i did and how i succeeded , you have already learned .
what are you going to take , mr phelps curried fowl or eggs , or will you help yourself ?
i have just returned from a small scouting expedition , and everything is favourable .
no , this is my friend dr watson .
cried a third .
i fail to see that anyone is to blame .
every clue seems to slip through my fingers .
it is not cold which makes me shiver ,
now and then we passed a moorland cottage , walled and roofed with stone , with no creeper to break its harsh outline .
if you will be so good .
very naturally not .
not so , lestrade .
what do you make of it , holmes ?
and when i raise my hand so you will throw into the room what i give you to throw , and will , at the same time , raise the cry of fire .
, and departed to euston station with the avowed intention of catching the liverpool express .
certainly .
and now you see the deadly urgency of this new case , and why i urged young openshaw to caution .
we are hunting together , mr holmes , and our trail lay in this direction .
i have also had a rumble through the ragged shaw .
the problem presents features of interest ,
this will do ,
i can imagine that the word was taken out of a dictionary , which would give the noun but not the plural .
his career has been an extraordinary one .
then , of course , she might give us very important information , but i was not sanguine that she would .
well , well , i must not be selfish ,
we have books , we have our studies , and we have interesting neighbours .
at present it is out of my power to reward you for your services , but in a month or six weeks i shall be married , with the control of my own income , and then at least you shall not find me ungrateful .
certainly , if you wish it , mr holmes ,
what shall i do ?
it is absurd , impossible , preposterous to anyone who knew him .
a candid observer would certainly declare that we were so already before we embarked upon so wild an experiment .
you 've done me ,
the case has been an interesting one ,
if you are ready we will start at once for woking , and see this diplomatist who is in such evil case , and the lady to whom he dictates his letters .
i will just put on my slippers before we settle this little matter of yours .
she had married a man named oakshott , and lived in brixton road , where she fattened fowls for the market .
i feel better now , and i will put the facts before you as shortly and yet as clearly as i can .
her face was turned away as we entered , but we could see that she was dressed in a red frock , and that she had long white gloves on .
i knew this man small had a certain degree of low cunning , but i did not think him capable of anything in the nature of delicate finesse .
it may be only his guilty conscience .
neither you nor your son knew the true character of this man when you admitted him into your family circle .
no doubt it 's just as they say .
third , l .
we do all our correspondence with this machine at the office , and no doubt it is a little worn ,
well , there are no papers .
exactly .
the man mopped his forehead with his handkerchief and gave a long sigh of relief .
she would often be lost in deep thought , with the saddest look upon her face .
however , i 've heard your name , mr sherlock holmes , and if you 'll only explain this queer business , i shall be paid for my trouble in telling you the story .
i am sure you could never guess how i employed my morning , or what i ended by doing .
yes , sir , it is a crushing blow ,
the young man pulled his chair up and pushed his wet feet out towards the blaze .
rather cool to do another so soon and so near , but it is they , beyond all doubt .
why serious ?
you are the stormy petrel of crime , watson .
then we meet again at two o clock .
there is only one man ,
did he tell you what i paid for it ?
well , what is it now ?
there has been a substitution of lodgers .
that is so , mr holmes .
for three months after taking over the practice i was kept very closely at work , and saw little of my friend sherlock holmes , for i was too busy to visit baker street , and he seldom went anywhere himself save upon professional business .
which is it to day ?
well , well , two of you came over .
the printer one could , of course , dismiss he could examine the papers in his own office .
simply that i put it there .
a rainy night had been followed by a glorious morning , and the heath covered countryside , with the glowing clumps of flowering gorse , seemed all the more beautiful to eyes which were weary of the duns and drabs and slate grays of london .
for twenty minutes i had sat motionless , thinking the matter out .
i enumerated in my own mind all the various points upon which he had shown me that he was exceptionally well informed .
this assistant of yours who first called your attention to the advertisement how long had he been with you ?
we are bound to go .
when taken in conjunction with your uncle 's death i am not sure that of all the five hundred cases of capital importance which i have handled there is one which cuts so deep .
we shall endeavour to clear up these points for you .
this instant .
you may think that i read the papers with some attention during my sojourn in france , on the look out for any chance of laying him by the heels .
it appears that some little trouble was caused by a woman , whose name has not been ascertained , who endeavoured to force her way into the house after the bridal party , alleging that she had some claim upon lord st .
i confess that i am surprised and disappointed .
only that ?
you fill me with interest ,
all my instincts are against this explanation .
if holmes knew more , he kept his own counsel , but , as he told me that inspector lestrade had taken him into his confidence in the case , i knew that he was in close touch with every development .
a low moaning sound was coming from somewhere over our heads .
something of his birth place seemed to cling to the man , and i never looked at his pale , keen face or the poise of his head without associating him with gray archways and mullioned windows and all the venerable wreckage of a feudal keep .
if you had looked at it , sir , you would have seen at a glance what the errand is on which i have come to you this morning .
mr hall pycroft , i believe ?
this also was opened , and led down a flight of winding stone steps , which terminated at another formidable gate .
the seaman lurched across the room and took up the pen .
what now ?
for the simple reason , my dear mr mac , that you have not got the first idea what it is that you are investigating .
you 'll have time to think the point out during the next ten years or so , unless i am mistaken .
in spirit ?
what were you speaking to brother morris about on miller hill this morning ?
the attack upon mr warren further shows that the enemy , whoever they are , are themselves not aware of the substitution of the female lodger for the male .
what did you do next ?
but why this elaborate deception ?
you 'll hear me call and in you will rush .
i cried .
palmer and pritchard were among the heads of their profession .
it was on the top .
the warning was no idle one , for two nights later i happened to look out of my bedroom window about two o'clock in the morning .
his grace is not in the habit of posting letters himself ,
that was the balance of probability , at any rate .
another experiment which he made was of a more unpleasant nature , and one which i am not likely ever to forget .
the thumb mark , lestrade .
perhaps that is why we are so subtly influenced by it .
more than one person fainted at the mere sight of him , so terrible was the effect .
you will excuse me for not waiting for you ,
he took a large villa , laid out the grounds very nicely , and lived generally in good style .
no : it is clear and concise .
well , and what happened when mr windibank , your stepfather , returned to france ?
with a threatening gesture of his hand , he turned from the door , and ferrier heard his heavy step scrunching along the shingly path .
i was on the same scent as you from the first .
you and i and yes , why , dr watson is the very man .
but say no more than you are told to say , or ' here came the nervous giggle again ' you had better never have been born .
they have , however , allowed me a policeman , who may remain in the house with me .
again , it is absurd to suppose that any sane man would carry out a deliberate crime under the very eyes , as it were , of a third person , who was sure to betray him .
but he goes into the city two or three times a week .
children , my dear boy , children .
holmes sank to his waist as he stepped from the path to seize it , and had we not been there to drag him out he could never have set his foot upon firm land again .
my life depends upon it .
and about his quarrel with his father , i am sure that the reason why he would not speak about it to the coroner was because i was concerned in it .
his appearance , you see , is so remarkable that no one can pass him without observing him .
hearken , then , to what i have to say .
holmes gave a cry of delight as he approached it .
but your other difficulties are not so formidable as they seem .
something has happened !
when i found patrick cairns among the harpooners , my research was nearing its end .
i have told you all that happened , mr hopkins ,
it amounted , if i am correctly informed , to five thousand pounds to anyone who will tell you where your son is ?
i am sorry to knock you up so early , doctor ,
they were waiting for me in the drawing room , which is a very large room , stretching along the entire front of the house , with three long windows reaching down to the floor .
i cannot possibly advise you if you try to deceive me ,
then it was open all the time ?
no , i can hardly answer that .
he could not have been much above twenty years of age .
by the living jingo !
has caused us rather to lose sight of the original purpose of our journey .
by george !
he had himself picked up the loaded hunting crop , which was his favourite weapon .
i at once came to norfolk with my friend and colleague , dr watson , but , unhappily , only in time to find that the worst had already occurred .
james ryder , upper attendant at the hotel , gave his evidence to the effect that he had shown horner up to the dressing room of the countess of morcar upon the day of the robbery in order that he might solder the second bar of the grate , which was loose .
but i have heard , mr holmes , that you can see deeply into the manifold wickedness of the human heart .
if horner were in danger it would be another thing but this fellow will not appear against him , and the case must collapse .
to make a long story short , the colonel recommended me strongly for the post and , as the work was mostly to be done on horseback , my leg was no great obstacle , for i had enough knee left to keep good grip on the saddle .
in these cases , save for one rather intricate matter which has been referred to me from marseilles , there is nothing which presents any features of interest .
it was a bewildering route for anyone who was not accustomed to face nature in her wildest moods .
there were reasons why i could not get there earlier .
i have no desire to bring trouble to you .
half a guinea if you do it in twenty minutes !
i tried it backwards , but the combination ' life pheasant 's hen ' was not encouraging .
i 'm sorry , councillor , but it 's ted baldwin .
eminent bodymaster ,
he seizes her , and she , snatching up the nearest object , which happens to be this knife , strikes at him in order to make him let go his hold .
he made england too hot to hold him , fled to central america , and died there in of yellow fever .
it would be an overstatement to say that he was shocked or even excited by the amazing announcement .
still , it is clear that she is not personally threatened .
the governor has never held up his head from that evening , and now the life has been crushed out of him and his heart broken , all through this accursed hudson .
i have told you , have i not , that you are too late ?
with a grim , white face , he retraced his steps to where he had dropped the food , and having stirred up the smouldering fire , he cooked enough to last him for a few days .
i should recommend you to call again in ten days .
douglas was a reticent man , and there were some chapters in his life of which he never spoke .
and he was devoted to his wife .
what , you dig fuller 's earth in the house ?
with a wood round it ?
it was an old , tumbledown building in a crazy state of disrepair .
beyond it lies the wide moor .
milverton dropped his papers and sat rigid in his chair .
here we are , jack , we ll be as good as a family to you .
you acknowledge then that you made an appointment with sir charles at the very hour and place at which he met his death , but you deny that you kept the appointment .
he happens to be a man over whose head some danger hangs
a hound it was , an enormous coal black hound , but not such a hound as mortal eyes have ever seen .
the treaty will cease to be secret in a few months .
it 's a hanging matter this time .
finally , he invited me down to his father 's place at donnithorpe , in norfolk , and i accepted his hospitality for a month of the long vacation .
yes , that green lamp at the side .
i have covered some ground .
it is believed , however , that the police have a clue as to the real culprits , and that it is being prosecuted by mr athelney jones , of scotland yard , with all his well known energy and sagacity .
i see the lights of a house ahead of us .
but i presume that this other goose upon the sideboard , which is about the same weight and perfectly fresh , will answer your purpose equally well ?
some six months afterwards the marquess of montalva and signor rulli , his secretary , were both murdered in their rooms at the hotel escurial at madrid .
certainly ,
a letter to say that the men whom he had wronged had been set free .
i have them in the hollow of my hand .
it 's all as clear as crystal , as you put it .
that is so .
i went down the stairs and into the hall , where i found the commissionnaire fast asleep in his box , with the kettle boiling furiously upon the spirit lamp .
that sir henry should have been exposed to this is , i must confess , a reproach to my management of the case , but we had no means of foreseeing the terrible and paralyzing spectacle which the beast presented , nor could we predict the fog which enabled him to burst upon us at such short notice .
it 's been the sign of four with us always .
now , watson , make an effort , throw your mind back .
the new century will have come , however , before the story can be safely told .
he dashed up , the inspector and i at his heels , while his brother mycroft followed as quickly as his great bulk would permit .
he was a small , stout man with a red face and a peppery manner .
the men were disarmed .
i think that friend hopkins will live up to his reputation , and that we shall have an interesting morning .
but a singular interruption brought us to a standstill .
who was the criminal , then ?
i took to adding on little sentences of my own to each question , innocent ones at first , to test whether either of our companions knew anything of the matter , and then , as i found that they showed no signs i played a more dangerous game .
i kept to the pavement after that , watson , but as i walked down vere street a brick came down from the roof of one of the houses , and was shattered to fragments at my feet .
twelve years have now elapsed since the first assassinations which proved the existence of a criminal organization in our midst .
but it had not approached the body ?
when you sat down on that chair yesterday , did you do so in order to conceal some object which would have shown who had been in the room ?
what on this earth could my wife be doing out on the country road at three in the morning ?
that is why i was so out of breath , for i am a man who takes very little exercise .
here you are , ' mrs oakshott , , brixton road , egg and poultry supplier .
i cried
the copper beeches , near winchester .
dear me , dear me the postoffice again !
his precious valise was wedged in beside him .
, in church street , stepney .
could your patients spare you for a few hours ?
he waited until quarter past eleven , when mr douglas upon his usual nightly round came into the room .
for months my life was despaired of , and when at last i came to myself and became convalescent , i was so weak and emaciated that a medical board determined that not a day should be lost in sending me back to england .
i could do with much less than that , mr holmes , but you understand that as long as i live at home i do n't wish to be a burden to them , and so they have the use of the money just while i am staying with them .
sherlock holmes welcomed her with the easy courtesy for which he was remarkable , and , having closed the door and bowed her into an armchair , he looked her over in the minute and yet abstracted fashion which was peculiar to him .
then a murder has been done .
we stood at the entrance while holmes made an examination of the carpet .
he prefers to take as few people as possible into his confidence .
some of them that fled into nepaul took me with them , and then afterwards i was up past darjeeling .
but to run here and run there , to cross question railway guards , and lie on my face with a lens to my eye it is not my metier .
my lens discloses more than one blood mark , especially towards the end of the rope , from which i gather that he slipped down with such velocity that he took the skin off his hand .
i really hardly know what i am doing ,
but they will forever brighten .
it is his hat .
if it 's a local villain there should not be much difficulty in running him down ,
the young man when last heard of was in america , and inquiries are being instituted with a view to informing him of his good fortune .
porlock , watson , is a nom de plume , a mere identification mark but behind it lies a shifty and evasive personality .
he was well but quietly dressed in a dark gray suit , and carried a brown wide awake in his hand .
you are the second man today that has used that expression to me .
colonel stark laid down the lamp on the top of a harmonium beside the door .
what brought all his wicked scheme to wreck was your discovery of this man heidegger 's dead body .
a beard ?
he might claim the property from south america , establish his identity before the british authorities there and so obtain the fortune without ever coming to england at all , or he might adopt an elaborate disguise during the short time that he need be in london or , again , he might furnish an accomplice with the proofs and papers , putting him in as heir , and retaining a claim upon some proportion of his income .
we waited , all curiosity , until with another effort he braced himself to tell his story .
they are , as i understand , the vital ones .
in a moment the young fellows had dismounted , fastened their horses , and were ascending the precipitous slope which led up to the object which had excited their curiosity .
mr oldacre is a bachelor , fifty two years of age , and lives in deep dene house , at the sydenham end of the road of that name .
no , sir
nothing to add ?
that is friendship indeed .
but now came the real difficulty of the inquiry .
they are all , as he remarks , very much against the son .
the baronet 's nerves were still quivering from that cry , which recalled the dark story of his family , and he was not in the mood for fresh adventures .
here are the accredited representatives of the law .
but this is splendid , really unique from some points of view .
i have no doubt at all as to what occurred .
it is well to be prepared .
he cried ,
what are they ?
i passed my hand over my brow .
i returned the strange hair to the drawer , and i said nothing of the matter to the rucastles as i felt that i had put myself in the wrong by opening a drawer which they had locked .
that if your government bears you out in this treatment it becomes an act of war .
wilder 's bicycle was leaning against the wall beside it .
vermissa herald
the bed was in the centre of the room , and in it , propped up with pillows , was the owner of the house .
you are very inquisitive , mr holmes .
i cannot help thinking that ladies are ill advised in not making an effort .
say so .
i should much prefer that you called in the aid of the police .
they both heard william the coachman calling for help , and mr alec ran down to see what was the matter .
as the young fellow realized the certainty of her fate , and his own powerlessness to prevent it , he wished that he , too , was lying with the old farmer in his last silent resting place .
this is a directory of paris , with the trades after the names of the people .
in releasing the lady , the cord had been slipped off her , but the knots with which it had been secured still remained .
he cried .
once the bridge was up , i guess he thought he was safe .
he rushes to some secret hoard , where he has accumulated the fruits of his beggary , and he stuffs all the coins upon which he can lay his hands into the pockets to make sure of the coat 's sinking .
oliver 's private school .
it was stapleton with his butterfly net .
the glamour and mystery of the place , with its sinister atmosphere of forgotten nations , appealed to the imagination of my friend , and he spent much of his time in long walks and solitary meditations upon the moor .
holmes picked up several of them and examined them carefully .
her face , too , was streaked with grime , and at the best she could never have been handsome , for she had the exact physical characteristics which holmes had divined , with , in addition , a long and obstinate chin .
this was clearly holmes 's doing .
she is living at present at the myrtles , beckenham .
what is the meaning of this ?
you really must , you know .
we have just come from his house .
cried holmes with frenzied eagerness .
from the beginning there was really nothing to prevent us from taking possession of the ship .
holmes laughed good humoredly .
i suppose ,
he saw and he heard nothing , and yet in the morning a great had been painted upon the outside of his door .
at present my attention was centred upon the single grim motionless figure which lay stretched upon the boards , with vacant sightless eyes staring up at the discoloured ceiling .
he had unlocked the door that led to the deck , and we were through it in a rush .
well , well , mr holmes , you 'll excuse my troubling you about such a trifle
there were one hundred and forty three diamonds of the first water , including one which has been called , i believe , ' the great mogul ' and is said to be the second largest stone in existence .
kidnapping a german subject .
some scaffolding had been erected against the end wall , and the stone work had been broken into , but there were no signs of any workmen at the moment of our visit .
no one saw the brother from the time thaddeus left him .
no , it is not selfishness or conceit ,
i wired to lord mount james .
and then suddenly it struck me that what was dark to me might be very light to mr sherlock holmes .
the man sat all twisted and huddled in his chair in a way which gave an indescribable impression of deformity but the face which he turned towards us , though worn and swarthy , must at some time have been remarkable for its beauty .
straker was excited at hearing the account , although he does not seem to have quite realized its true significance .
what with your eternal tobacco , watson , and your irregularity at meals , i expect that you will get notice to quit , and that i shall share your downfall not , however , before we have solved the problem of the nervous tutor , the careless servant , and the three enterprising students .
it was early in april in the year ' that i woke one morning to find sherlock holmes standing , fully dressed , by the side of my bed .
both road and stream wound up through a valley dense with scrub oak and fir .
it ran in this way :
william received a letter by the afternoon post yesterday .
well , we have nothing else to go upon no evidence of any kind .
you shall smart for this !
and so do i .
it has cost me two years , watson , but they have not been devoid of excitement .
but will he see it ?
it was in his pocket book that we found it .
tell me where the box is hid , and i shall get leave of absence and go back to india in the monthly relief boat to inquire into the affair .
my father was absent from home at the time of my arrival , and i was informed by the maid that he had driven over to ross with john cobb , the groom .
it is not worth your while to wait , ' she went on .
well , i thought as you do ,
it is wednesday .
you you insult me , mr holmes .
the forcible administration of poison is by no means a new thing in criminal annals .
it lay at the feet of the dead man .
if you were asked to prove that two and two made four , you might find some difficulty , and yet you are quite sure of the fact .
i looked back as i rounded the far end of it , and saw that they were still talking very earnestly together , and , as they were gazing after me , it was clear that it was our interview that was the subject of their debate .
you are bound to leave something to the intelligence of your correspondent .
might i trouble you to open the window , for chloroform vapour does not help the palate .
good heavens , those talks !
a letter of yours was found in the dead man 's pocket , and we know by it that you had planned to pass last night at his house .
he is clean shaven , pale , and ascetic looking , retaining something of the professor in his features .
the journey was a swift and pleasant one , and i spent it in making the more intimate acquaintance of my two companions and in playing with dr mortimer 's spaniel .
madness , anyhow .
just the same as mine .
i should prefer having a partner to being alone .
the commutation of his death sentence had been due to some doubts as to his complete sanity , so atrocious was his conduct .
i 've got a job that 's worthy of you at last .
that was there when your ritual was drawn up ,
then i do not think that i need to detain you longer .
cried holmes in amazement .
i knew then that i could do my employer no good , but would only throw my own life away if i meddled in the matter .
where , then , could he have been ?
well done , well done !
from where i lay i had a perfect view of the inside of the room and of every one of his movements .
i was determined that the law should have its way in everything .
he cried .
holmes shook his head .
what did he get ?
no , watson , i would not touch that box .
that i do not quite follow you .
it was a dog grate , mr holmes , and he overpitched it .
pray continue your very interesting statement .
they know all they see at godolphin street .
i guess he will n't show his face in this valley again .
we 'd best put it back on the rug where we found it ,
well , i was sitting doing a smoke that very evening after i had been promised the appointment , when up came my landlady with a card which had ' arthur pinner , financial agent , ' printed upon it .
let us look at the matter clearly and fairly .
take time to consider .
the name was strange to him .
atte why , it is the same message over again .
i was much more struck by the appearance of his companion .
it struck me that he was a little restless and excited , sir
i brought him out with me with a long rope wound round his waist .
i have now in my hands ,
he conceives an idea more creditable to his head than to his heart .
like all other arts , the science of deduction and analysis is one which can only be acquired by long and patient study nor is life long enough to allow any mortal to attain the highest possible perfection in it .
but , in any case a forced marriage is no marriage , but it is a very serious felony , as you will discover before you have finished .
who are you , then ?
but you 've got mixed , watson , for i have only been here a few hours , three pipes , four pipes i forget how many .
he only , as i understand , gave an inarticulate cry ?
then , when he had left , you rifled the jewel case , raised the alarm , and had this unfortunate man arrested .
ah , naughty , naughty , would you take a nip at the gentleman ?
i repeat , then , that the occurrence was immediately after his departure , and not later than eleven o'clock last night .
i rose to my feet , stared at him for some seconds in utter amazement , and then it appears that i must have fainted for the first and the last time in my life .
by advising me as to what i should do with sir henry baskerville , who arrives at waterloo station
the residue all went to sir henry .
it exactly corresponded .
the little creature ran across at the words and nestled up against the lady 's dress .
my case is , as i have told you , almost complete but we must not err on the side of over confidence .
his dark , handsome , aquiline features were convulsed into a spasm of vindictive hatred , which had set his dead face in a terribly fiendish expression .
have you any better explanation ?
that sounds a little paradoxical .
i marked the spot upon my own head .
that belongs to well , perhaps it is hardly fair to tell the name until to morrow morning .
then i will take up no more of your time .
i am delighted to see you ,
i could see that holmes was favourably impressed by the manner and speech of his new client .
it came to us yesterday , as we sat together in this study .
could you not repeat it for me ?
one might think that you were afraid of our finding something out .
the good writing represents stations , the bad writing movement , and the very bad writing passing over points .
that pretence i have carried out with the thoroughness of the true artist .
holmes 's calculation was fulfilled within a very few minutes by the appearance of billy , the page , with the very letter which we were expecting .
we walked down the quaint village street with a row of pollarded elms on each side of it .
such an idea was absurd .
what can it mean , this relentless persecution ?
between the two , behind the hill , was the house of the stapletons .
at the same time , stanley hopkins 's methods do not commend themselves to me .
let us open it .
theresa kept on repeating our story to her mistress , while i swarmed up and cut the rope of the bell .
both of them were fastened on the inside .
to humour your guilty elder son , you have exposed your innocent younger son to imminent and unnecessary danger .
mcmurdo and scanlan strolled on with the others , keeping in sight of the men whom they followed .
that night , on the advice of the manager of the hotel , i communicated with the police , and next morning we advertised in all the papers .
i left them all round the table , as merry as could be .
he is coming ,
he had prospered well , and barker had first met him in california , where they had become partners in a successful mining claim at a place called benito canyon .
yet he also gives the idea of hidden fires .
according to his own account , corroborated only by the word of his wife , he was at home the whole of monday evening after office hours , and his key has never left the watch chain upon which it hangs .
you see , watson , our little deductions have suddenly assumed a much more important and less innocent aspect .
but no case could be sustained against him .
why will you not show me the letter ?
then come the sudden swirl round of the wind , the blistering gale from the south west , the dragging anchor , the lee shore , and the last battle in the creaming breakers .
i waited until midnight , but there was no sign of his return , so i retired to my room .
he cried , excitedly , drawing the window curtain to one side .
this sort of nose is usually a short and coarse one , but there is a sufficient number of exceptions to prevent me from being dogmatic or from insisting upon this point in my description .
maybe it was i that pulled the trigger .
ah , that was a more daring shot , though i have no doubt that i was right .
i was going down to birlstone this morning ,
you can imagine with what eagerness i listened to him , watson , for the very chance for which i had been panting during all those months of inaction seemed to have come within my reach .
why not write ?
i had imagined that we were bound for baker street , but holmes stopped the cab at the corner of cavendish square .
if she were seated on the chair when the crime was done , how comes that mark ?
i grasped holmes 's arm .
breckinridge is his name .
it conveys nothing to my mind .
this is an instructive case .
it 's little i would care if it was just my room , but indeed , ettie , though it 's only a week that i 've known you , you are the very breath of life to me , and i can n't live without you !
if the green grocer had such a thing as a laurel wreath , i should send billy round for it .
i am sure that you will find it best .
yes , sir
you remember , inspector martin , when the servants said that on leaving their room they were at once conscious of a smell of powder , i remarked that the point was an extremely important one ?
it contained no word , but this little line of dancing men :
i am quite well again .
you dogged her and followed her and made her life a misery to her , in order to induce her to abandon the husband whom she loved and respected in order to fly with you , whom she feared and hated .
in the meantime the housekeeper had also arrived upon the scene , but she was just too late to catch the young man 's dying words .
holmes strolled round the house with his hands in his pockets and a negligent air which was unusual with him .
she has told me since that she thought me cold and distant upon that journey .
done about the same time as the bell rope ?
it is more than that .
then i remember that there was a name that came continually to his lips .
dr leslie armstrong is certainly a man of energy and character ,
head keeper hudson , we believe , has been now told to receive all orders for fly paper and for preservation of your hen pheasant 's life .
i told you that , whatever happened , lestrade and gregson would be sure to score .
when shall we see them ?
exactly .
now , my dear watson , does anything remain for me to explain ?
i owe you many apologies , my dear watson , but it was all important that it should be thought i was dead , and it is quite certain that you would not have written so convincing an account of my unhappy end had you not yourself thought that it was true .
a large foot or a small ?
sir henry was much interested and asked stapleton more than once whether he did really believe in the possibility of the interference of the supernatural in the affairs of men .
this is a map of the colony of victoria ,
precisely so .
it is a capital mistake to theorize before one has data .
he stepped past and laid his hand upon the glossy neck of the thoroughbred .
oscillation upon the pavement always means an affaire de coeur .
thank god , ' he cried .
i can n't sleep for fright .
on reaching the base of the bluff they halted , and held a short council among themselves .
vell , you can lay that she told you truth .
a lovely violet growing upon one of those black slag heaps of the mines would not have seemed more surprising .
from all i hear it is splendid pay and very little to do .
the window was being opened .
and what do you think they found in the pockets ?
more wise than those who go on until the wheel turns against them , he realized his gains and returned to england with them .
and you , what the devil do you want here ?
after all ,
three days of absolute fast does not improve one 's beauty , watson .
what is it then ?
sherlock holmes 's eyes glistened , his pale cheeks took a warmer hue , and his whole eager face shone with an inward light when the call for work reached him .
the worst of it is that i only bought the pair last night in the strand , and i have never had them on .
the fellow looked at us in a helpless way , and he wrung his hands together like one who is in the last extremity of doubt and misery .
at last we have a clue !
you know very well that i must stick to regulations .
no , i was quite free .
then i left it , feeling a weight at my heart such as i had never had before .
our driver half turned in his seat .
your brain may , as you say , be roused and excited , but it is a pathological and morbid process , which involves increased tissue change and may at last leave a permanent weakness .
he appeared to be wrenching at it , or bending it with all his strength .
there is , however , one of these last which was so remarkable in its details and so startling in its results that i am tempted to give some account of it in spite of the fact that there are points in connection with it which never have been , and probably never will be , entirely cleared up .
meanwhile it had struck me that it would be wise to secure our retreat through the outer door , so i examined it .
there only remains mrs toller , who might give the alarm .
you remember hilton cubitt , of the dancing men ?
his plan of campaign was beginning to be evident .
i trust , mr holder , that you are nearing the end of your troubles .
his wife , too , was popular with those who had made her acquaintance though , after the english fashion , the callers upon a stranger who settled in the county without introductions were few and far between .
it was him that roused him up yesternight , and , what 's more , my man knew he was comin ' , for he had steam up in the launch .
well , i thought his name was known clear across the country .
i have already heard of your meeting with mrs barclay , and your mutual recognition .
you were not an accessory , therefore , and she came , so far as i can read the evidence , without your knowledge to rob you .
it may stop his gossip .
and for present expenses ?
the driver jumped down , and i saw him open the door and stand expectantly .
what was it that mr sherlock holmes wanted , sir ?
you see he poses as a motor expert and i keep a full garage .
we have proved it too often .
i 'll tell you what i did first , and how i came to do it afterwards ,
he is desperately ill .
but that is a mere detail .
holmes crouched back against the wall , and i did the same , my hand closing upon the handle of my revolver .
you are most long suffering , but if i have told you nothing in the last three days , it is because there is nothing to tell .
i believe that he is coming here ,
i give you my word that i would have spoken out if it went against him at the assizes .
she had a commission from her father in the city , and was dashing in as she had done many a time before , with all the fearlessness of youth , thinking only of her task and how it was to be performed .
and then , seeing that i smiled and shook my head , she suddenly threw aside her constraint and made a step forward , with her hands wrung together .
this is where the young man 's body lay ,
they write to the wife , and threaten to come and expose her .
we are to wait here ?
what did you do then , sir ?
well , i should put the original cost of the pipe at seven and sixpence .
i 've heard that it takes a man to be a brother .
sherlock holmes had listened with the utmost intentness to the statement of the unhappy schoolmaster .
fresh troops came pouring in , and nana sahib made himself scarce over the frontier .
he was stanch and true , was little tonga .
he knows that i cannot verify his guess .
he was searching his pockets for the key when someone passing said :
when i went upstairs with him he pointed to several footprints upon the light carpet .
he does not live in the house , but in a three roomed cottage at the other end of the garden .
has he any one outstanding quality ?
excellent , watson !
i was already asleep when i was partly awakened by his entrance .
meanwhile , we shall put the case aside until more accurate data are available , and devote the rest of our morning to the pursuit of neolithic man .
you could not possibly have come at a better time , my dear watson ,
a blow was struck , and in an instant the lady , who had stepped from her carriage , was the centre of a little knot of flushed and struggling men , who struck savagely at each other with their fists and sticks .
what do you think of it ?
but surely you or the girl enter his room of a morning ?
here am i , a stranger in the town .
does lecoq come up to your idea of a detective ?
but , so far as you can ascertain , he did not take it ?
it must be bought .
extremely so .
still , it is an error to argue in front of your data .
in truth , it was partly for your own sake that i did it , and it was my appreciation of the danger which you ran which led me to come down and examine the matter for myself .
she was slighted like and had no say in anything , but it never really became bad for her until after she met mr fowler at a friend 's house .
then perhaps you will kindly explain how it is that we found this in it ?
rance sat down on the horsehair sofa , and knitted his brows as though determined not to omit anything in his narrative .
i should like to see him very much .
i sat frozen with horror for a minute or two .
something rushed out at us and my heart sprang into my mouth , but i could have laughed when i realized that it was the cat .
a deep moat lay in front of our door , but the water was in places nearly dried up , and it could easily be crossed .
i examined the contents of the safe , most of which had been taken out and left on the table .
what becomes , then , of these nocturnal whistles , and what of the very peculiar words of the dying woman ?
quite so , madam ,
is there no such thing as a gentleman ?
but it is a real crisis .
in my last report i ended upon my top note with barrymore at the window , and now i have quite a budget already which will , unless i am much mistaken , considerably surprise you .
it would puzzle any crook to force that safe ,
mcmurdo nodded .
the others did the same , and set the table on its legs again .
i could think of nothing save that he was running a tunnel to some other building .
perhaps you would kindly give me a sketch of the course of events from memory .
and now he has slammed off to his room , but i can hear him walking away the same as ever .
the tradesman was put to his trade and the artisan to his calling .
yes , i have put it away where you shall never lay hand upon it ,
the landlord gave a very visible start .
i have been out to streatham since i saw you last , but i did not call at the house .
it is the wooden legged man .
you know a conjuror gets no credit when once he has explained his trick , and if i show you too much of my method of working , you will come to the conclusion that i am a very ordinary individual after all .
it is unthinkable .
that is very fortunate , as i have one or two matters of importance to look into just at present .
then he would indicate how the matter might be treated .
i do n't know when i 've known him make a better one , and he 's ordered a good dish of cutlets for his lunch .
an examination by experts leaves little doubt that a personal contest between the two men ended , as it could hardly fail to end in such a situation , in their reeling over , locked in each other 's arms any attempt at recovering the bodies was absolutely hopeless , and there , deep down in that dreadful caldron of swirling water and seething foam , will lie for all time the most dangerous criminal and the foremost champion of the law of their generation .
then put your hand here ,
from chicago he was chased , after two attempts so near success that it was sure that the third would get him .
and , of course , i cannot pretend to be ignorant of the object of your visit .
does that suggest anything to you ?
how came he , then ?
here is a copy of the hieroglyphics :
a terrible tragedy had occurred at the manor house , and john douglas had been murdered .
what could that mean ?
only about a mile , sir
a false step yonder means death to man or beast .
it would be a pity to miss it .
mcginty took a slip of paper from his waistcoat pocket .
our guide knocked , and then ushered us into the professor 's bedroom .
you horrify me !
gosh , in a wide open contraption like that !
he thinks that it was unfair on our part to hunt his brother in law down when he , of his own free will , had told us the secret .
with designs upon the succession .
what is he hiding for ?
with her perfect figure and elegant dress she was , indeed , a strange apparition upon a lonely moorland path .
so far i had got before i ever heard lord st .
it was only upon my representing to him that i had given a promise that the adventure of the second stain should be published when the times were ripe , and pointing out to him that it is only appropriate that this long series of episodes should culminate in the most important international case which he has ever been called upon to handle , that i at last succeeded in obtaining his consent that a carefully guarded account of the incident should at last be laid before the public .
so powerful and so fierce was he , that the four of us were shaken off again and again .
and this cavalier opposite to me the one with the black velvet and the lace ?
yes , sir prints it in pencil .
on the contrary , you are , as i understand , richer by some pounds , to say nothing of the minute knowledge which you have gained on every subject which comes under the letter a .
let us hear the suspicions .
would not such a request rather rouse his suspicions and cause him to fly ?
no i shall be my own police .
you will n't mind my testing you , will you ?
if i fail i shall , of course , incur all the blame due to this omission but that i am prepared for .
tottering and shaking in all his giant frame , he stumbled slowly from the room .
then you can go home .
here is her carriage at the door .
however , i must not sit gossiping here , but must get these disreputable clothes off and return to my highly respectable self .
well , we talked it over , and he had fixed it all up so nicely , with a clergyman all ready in waiting , that we just did it right there and then frank went off to seek his fortune , and i went back to pa .
some fumes which are not poisonous would be a welcome change ,
here it is , mr holmes .
on the whole , he thinks that barclay 's devotion to his wife was greater than his wife 's to barclay .
i have come incognito from prague for the purpose of consulting you .
holmes had received a telegram while we sat at our lunch , and he had scribbled a reply .
i leave that paper with his breakfast every morning .
turning his back upon us he laid down his burden , and the next instant there was the sound of a sharp tap , followed by a clatter and rattle .
i distinctly saw his bare throat .
he appears to be a very consistent character .
it recalls nothing to my mind .
that was when he picked up with this outcast padre here .
i met him accordingly next morning and we traveled down to woking together .
he passed close beside us , stole over to the window , and very softly and noiselessly raised it for half a foot .
i must pass you .
you may be sure , sir , that i have very good grounds before i come to an opinion .
mcmurdo raised his hand in caution .
what more could one ask for ?
i think it is the most complete one in the south west of england .
but was there another with a barred tail ?
i will represent the official police until their arrival .
yes , it is it and the letter is intact .
i read in his eyes that he suspected .
tomorrow 's the exam , and i will n't be drawn by anyone .
frankly , then , madam , i do not .
it is perhaps less suggestive than it might have been ,
no , my dear fellow , it is at the hour of action that i turn to you for aid .
i learned the name of it from the vicar , and i wired to make certain that dr leon sterndale 's account was true .
night and day the shadow would have been over me , and sooner or later his chance must have come .
no they are very few .
the knowledge that the girl 's story is true .
you must not interfere , come what may .
it was gone , however , and the incident appeared to make the worst impression upon his mind .
but there are objections to that .
the only suggestion in this direction comes from mortimer tregennis himself , who says that his brother spoke about some movement in the garden .
you can do nothing .
you will not go there first ?
young charpentier could not have been engaged in this second affair .
we watched him staring round with frightened eyes .
an examination showed that one of the india rubber bands which was round the head of a driving rod had shrunk so as not quite to fill the socket along which it worked .
we were to meet at the pool midway between our houses to talk it over .
at two in the morning drebber had been found in the brixton road .
it was a woman , young and singularly beautiful .
at the same time , he would naturally feel loyalty towards the officials who were working on the same case , and he would not conceal from them anything which would help them in bringing a criminal to justice .
i ought to know by this time that when a fact appears to be opposed to a long train of deductions , it invariably proves to be capable of bearing some other interpretation .
on the contrary , i have half a sovereign for you if you will give me a clear answer to my questions .
an elderly , clean shaved man with a kindly face and a good brow rose from the end of the table which faced the chairman .
he sank his head upon his hands , while the inspector smiled at the effect which his case had had upon the famous london specialist .
the man 's career is that of an honourable soldier .
i shall just have time to tell you the facts of the case before we get to lee .
the answer should give us the but halloo !
gasped hatherley .
he nodded at my papers ,
i have it !
we came over to see the reason .
the tall one , then , had done the murder , if murder there was .
further arrests may be expected at any moment .
he looked about him anxiously in the glare of the lamp , and i could see that his face was pale and his eyes heavy , like those of a man who is weighed down with some great anxiety .
in answer to holmes , they both remembered that they were conscious of the smell of powder from the moment that they ran out of their rooms upon the top floor .
perhaps you would care to step in , sir , and see his brother , colonel valentine ?
you will excuse this informal reception in the open air , but my friend watson and i have nearly furnished an additional chapter to what the papers call the cornish horror , and we prefer a clear atmosphere for the present .
very lonely , sir
how was it that no one else saw it ?
i have only just recovered from nine weeks of brain fever , and am still exceedingly weak .
i had descended from my gig and was standing in front of him , when i saw his eyes fix themselves over my shoulder and stare past me with an expression of the most dreadful horror .
the secretary came back , and told his employer of the woman he had met .
but what a caravan !
why did you shoot him ?
i was fairly puzzled by it all .
now within a few minutes .
mcmurdo had a fine tenor voice , and if he had failed to gain the good will of the lodge before , it could no longer have been withheld after he had thrilled them with i 'm sitting on the stile , mary , and on the banks of allan water .
it is clearly a reference to the words in a page of some book .
with perfect coolness holmes slipped across to the safe , filled his two arms with bundles of letters , and poured them all into the fire .
mr sherlock holmes
you are both very kind ,
on the contrary ,
perhaps he was not so strong as you suppose .
then he threw himself down into the chair opposite , and drew up his knees until his fingers clasped round his long , thin shins .
that 's right .
that a typewriter has really quite as much individuality as a man 's handwriting .
i 've a mind to send a couple of the boys round before evening to give him a beating up and see what they can get from him .
he burst into convulsive sobbing , with his face buried in his hands .
i suppose that you could not possibly whistle , yourself , in your sleep ?
mr musgrave , sir , he cried , in a voice which was hoarse with emotion ,
the recent sudden death of sir charles baskerville , whose name has been mentioned as the probable liberal candidate for mid devon at the next election , has cast a gloom over the county .
you come back and be washed , jack ,
why do you look at me like that , jack ?
and , i say , peterson , just buy a goose on your way back and leave it here with me , for we must have one to give to this gentleman in place of the one which your family is now devouring .
rushed into the woman 's arms their embrace was but for an instant , however , for the younger man seized the woman and pushed her out of the room , while the elder easily overpowered his emaciated victim , and dragged him away through the other door .
sherlock holmes took it up and opened the bureau .
this could not be a visitor at so late an hour .
but these glasses do puzzle me , i confess .
what 's this ?
it has been tarred .
i could swear to it .
he cried .
perfectly sound !
so thrilling had the man 's narrative been , and his manner was so impressive that we had sat silent and absorbed .
his only correspondent , so far as i know , was his own father .
one by one the numbers dwindled down , and still there came no sign of him .
there was only my trade left .
admirable !
oh , man , it is awful awful !
it was at the shop of morse hudson , who has a place for the sale of pictures and statues in the kennington road .
because there are many ciphers which i would read as easily as i do the apocrypha of the agony column : such crude devices amuse the intelligence without fatiguing it .
who is she ?
it is surely inconceivable that he could have held out upon the moor during all that time .
for i believe that , save for one sample in a laboratory at buda , there is no other specimen in europe .
least of all does the maiden herself know it until the tone of a voice or the touch of a hand sets her heart thrilling within her , and she learns , with a mixture of pride and of fear , that a new and a larger nature has awoken within her .
the heath was covered with golden patches of flowering gorse , gleaming magnificently in the light of the bright spring sunshine .
a few minutes later we were joined by a short , stout man whose olive face and coal black hair proclaimed his southern origin , though his speech was that of an educated englishman .
to whom ?
then came the smash , and she stayed on to nurse her lover , while brother joseph , finding himself pretty snug , stayed on too .
it was to ask you that i came here to day .
i am giving you some information now , in return for all that you have given me .
god help me !
there was a small portmanteau in the room , and this he pulled out and began to strap .
some years ago to be definite , in may , there came to lee a gentleman , neville st .
you sent for me , mr holmes .
pray interrupt me if there is any inference which is not perfectly clear to you .
i shall be most happy to tell you anything i can ,
he 's a likely lad , and he 's a christian , which is more than these folk here , in spite o all their praying and preaching .
and a nobler man never walked the earth .
ah , i am wandering !
our conversation ran something like this :
i leave my estate , with all its advantages and all its disadvantages , to my brother , your father , whence it will , no doubt , descend to you .
on the dog raced through sawdust and shavings , down an alley , round a passage , between two wood piles , and finally , with a triumphant yelp , sprang upon a large barrel which still stood upon the hand trolley on which it had been brought .
but it 's cursed hard that i should be lagged over this young sholto , with whom i had no quarrel whatever .
the crime committed , they quarrelled as to who had actually struck the fatal blow , and amused one another and the company by describing the cries and contortions of the murdered man .
i want the doctor 's advice and help , too .
could she have guessed ?
he held up a piece of white cardboard about the size of a sheet of note paper .
that was yesterday , mr holmes , and i have not seen her since , nor do i know anything more about this strange business .
but godfrey was the heir to this crabbed old nobleman , and it was quite certain that the news of his marriage would have been the end of his inheritance .
i saw the wheel tracks in the light of the gate lamp , but where does the luggage come in ?
the little front garden lay before the farmer 's eyes bounded by the fence and gate , but neither there nor on the road was any human being to be seen .
he was still chuckling over his success when billy swung open the door and inspector macdonald of scotland yard was ushered into the room .
particular man in his stationery .
he seemed to be a middle aged man , with a short , dark beard .
would n't we have found the place disarranged , and missed the things which he had taken ?
what then ?
his wet clothing showed that he had been out in the storm of the night before , and his stick , which was a penang lawyer weighted with lead , was just such a weapon as might , by repeated blows , have inflicted the terrible injuries to which the trainer had succumbed .
but there is a ring at the bell , watson , and as the clock makes it a few minutes after four , i have no doubt that this will prove to be our noble client .
i do n't insist upon it .
i suppose that it is no use my attempting to conceal that our marriage has not been a happy one .
but i have had a bad setback .
it was impossible to mistake the scene of the young lady 's adventure , for the road runs between the open heath on one side and an old yew hedge upon the other , surrounding a park which is studded with magnificent trees .
i shall take your advice in every particular .
you can see him very well .
without , however , the knowledge of pre existing cases which serves me so well .
you wrote to me about a bust that is in my possession .
the eternal cigarette smouldered in his mouth .
the dog continued to lie stretched upon tho cushion , breathing in a laboured way , but apparently neither the better nor the worse for its draught .
i know him from the photograph .
you can tell your father that i 'll sleep here to night and find some other quarters in the morning .
you are a wronged woman , and shall have justice .
pray what steps did you take when you found the card upon the door ?
you told me that he had some small office under the british government .
he appeared to be in a state of nervous exaltation .
by the way , what do you make of that tobacco pouch , found on the scene of the crime ?
a faint moaning and rustling came from within .
anything remarkable on hand ?
just before dinner two telegrams were handed in .
in the first place , i may say that i have met , on the whole , with no actual ill treatment from mr and mrs rucastle .
who was this englishman that he should come between us ?
the lady was a charming correspondent .
watson , you will send a note to stapleton to tell him that you regret that you cannot come .
oh , you do , do you ? he snarls .
it is part of the settled order of nature that such a girl should have followers ,
the three detectives had many matters of detail into which to inquire so i returned alone to our modest quarters at the village inn .
he could suggest no possible cause why anyone should wish to destroy them in fact , he laughed at the idea .
this marriage rather simplifies matters .
meanwhile i pass on to the second on my list , which promised also at one time to be of national importance , and was marked by several incidents which give it a quite unique character .
i am retained in this case of the ferrers documents , and the abergavenny murder is coming up for trial .
it was a woman 's voice , and mrs barrymore , paler and more horror struck than her husband , was standing at the door .
darkness had fallen , and a keen blizzard was blowing so that the streets were nearly deserted but a few loiterers followed the group , and emboldened by invisibility shouted imprecations at the prisoner .
an ' i knows where the treasure is .
no , no , it is not so bad as that ,
and yet the idea struck a chill to the most reckless of them .
both have been ever since the houses were built .
i should never have known you under that moustache , and i dare say you would not be prepared to swear to me .
great scott !
who are the scowrers ?
what do you think of him , watson ?
then , of course , there are the man 's own dying words .
what would you do then ?
he shall find me ready when he comes back .
which key was used to open it ?
a thick mist lay over them , and from the heart of it there came the sudden scream of a steam whistle .
holmes followed him , and i , leaving the horse grazing beside the road , followed holmes .
i watched his son all i could for the sake of the old days .
but i have been seated quietly in my chair , and what clues can i have given you ?
then he took a worn newspaper cutting from an inner pocket .
his name ,
a leather valise stood beside his table , and into this he began to pack very neatly and systematically the precious contents of his safe .
the first half of his task was successfully accomplished but the more difficult still remained .
whatever your reasons may be , you are perfectly correct ,
he 's in hiding , too , but he 's not a convict as far as i can make out .
we were all upon our feet , staggering after him with our stiffened limbs , while he ran swiftly across the bridge and rang violently at the bell .
i never saw either of them until two months ago , and i have never been in africa in my life , so you can put that in your pipe and smoke it , mr busybody holmes !
we are going to hear some news now with a vengeance !
it had been hacked or torn right out from the roots .
holmes was already dressed , and we hastened down to meet him .
maybe he did split .
the noise ceased , and again there was a long silence .
you feared , as i understand , that very grave results might follow from the details of this treaty becoming known .
i wished mr acton to be present while i demonstrated this small matter to you ,
let me go a little further , a very little further , and i will promise that you shall share everything that i know .
it was cleaned before being sent to me .
the paper is cut off in two snips with a short bladed scissors .
there was a paragraph amplifying this in one of the society papers of the same week .
you 'll dine with us , lestrade , and then you are welcome to the sofa until it is time for us to start .
he is far from rich and has many calls .
we have half an hour to ourselves .
she had screamed when he struck her , and that brought old theresa down from the room above .
not a word to show your suspicions not a word , or my plans crumble to the ground .
how did they draw it ?
we must wish you good morning now , mrs lyons , and it is probable that you will very shortly hear from us again .
but i am sure that it will interest mr horace harker and the subscribers of the central press syndicate .
on seeing him lying still the creature had probably approached to sniff at him , but finding him dead had turned away again .
cried my patient .
i find them recorded in my notes under the headings of the adventure of the second stain , the adventure of the naval treaty , and the adventure of the tired captain . the first of these , however , deals with interest of such importance and implicates so many of the first families in the kingdom that for many years it will be impossible to make it public .
i shall want you to help me to my freedom , and to help my three companions to theirs .
he whispered , putting his lips to my very ear .
a huge rock , falling from above , boomed past me , struck the path , and bounded over into the chasm .
a war of two classes with all in , so that each struck as best it could .
it cost me something in foolscap , and i had pretty nearly filled a shelf with my writings .
i could see him better now as the lamp light shone upon him .
he deals with no niggard hand .
from every point on the compass there was nothing but torture and murder and outrage .
then if you were in the room within half a minute of the crime , he must have been in the water at that very moment .
framed in the bright light of the open doorway , it seemed to mcmurdo that he had never seen a more beautiful picture the more attractive for its contrast with the sordid and gloomy surroundings .
but it was not the man who surprised me .
they could talk english pretty well , but i could get little out of them .
i fear i cannot help you much .
i knew you came from afghanistan .
i wish you , john , to witness my will .
why should i pull her into it ?
my dear fellow , it would be a colossal task .
the former have belonged to oxen , and the latter to men .
what explanation did she give of having answered the bell when mr phelps rang for the coffee ?
exactly .
then she was gone .
beside it sat the dead man , leaning back in his chair , his thin beard projecting , his spectacles pushed up on to his forehead , and his lean dark face turned towards the window and twisted into the same distortion of terror which had marked the features of his dead sister .
he had at least five small refuges in different parts of london , in which he was able to change his personality .
he cried .
it was clear to me , from the strength of the glasses , that the wearer must have been very blind and helpless when deprived of them .
i want you to open all notes and telegrams , and to act on your own judgment if any news should come .
it is an open secret that the duke 's married life had not been a peaceful one , and the matter had ended in a separation by mutual consent , the duchess taking up her residence in the south of france .
there you have the missing clue to my action , mr holmes .
then it would be time for me to announce that i was still in the land of the living .
the words took away my breath for an instant but a glance at the placid face and steadfast eyes of my companion showed that no surprise was intended .
and in some ways a worse one ,
a reference to the timetable showed that the : was the first train which it was possible for west to take after he had left the lady about : .
what do you make of it , dr mortimer ?
i am naturally observant , as you may have remarked , mr holmes , and i soon had a pretty good plan of the whole house in my head .
precisely .
sometimes he will shut up a right of way and defy the parish to make him open it .
there are fourteen other characteristics , but those are the more obvious .
he comes to england with the double idea of regaining what he would consider to be his rights and of having his revenge upon the man who had wronged him .
then for four hours the despatch box had lain unguarded ?
she was a five hundred ton boat and besides her thirty eight jail birds , she carried twenty six of a crew , eighteen soldiers , a captain , three mates , a doctor , a chaplain , and four warders .
it is no business of mine ,
why should a perfectly honest man well , well , here 's a large stationer ' s .
and i object to rows because my nerves are shaken , and i get up at all sorts of ungodly hours , and i am extremely lazy .
it was not the wife it was the children ,
above all , the great temple which they had erected in the centre of the city grew ever taller and larger .
in this way you see k .
i cried .
holmes stole across and looked at it .
the finger nails and the trichinopoly ,
this is how he gave me the slip the other night .
and has your business been attended to in your absence ?
if this is so , we have now to determine what barker and mrs douglas , presuming that they are not the actual murderers , could have been doing from quarter to eleven , when the sound of the shot brought them down , until quarter past eleven , when they rang the bell and summoned the servants .
wait a moment ,
he unwound the handkerchief and held out his hand .
well , perhaps it will n't be so difficult , after all .
whereas mordecai smith , boatman , and his son , jim , left smith 's wharf at or about three o'clock last tuesday morning in the steam launch aurora , black with two red stripes , funnel black with a white band , the sum of five pounds will be paid to any one who can give information to mrs smith , at smith 's wharf , or at b baker street , as to the whereabouts of the said mordecai smith and the launch aurora .
it is the side entrance for trades people .
is mrs marker there ?
cried mcmurdo .
but practically
i dare say you thought i acted rather badly to stanley hopkins just now ?
i give you my word that all the way , the father and the daughter were walking in front of us .
i presume that it is mr sherlock holmes whom i am addressing and not
a little later the chief constable sent for me .
green open , white shut .
this is how you repay the trust which we have reposed in you .
he entered with a weariness and lethargy which was even more painful than his violence of the morning before , and he dropped heavily into the armchair which i pushed forward for him .
i 've certainly had no credit from the case so far .
i mind that you said it was a splay foot , and here 's the explanation .
she states that while she was there she saw , at the border of the wood and close by the lake , mr mccarthy and his son , and that they appeared to be having a violent quarrel .
i think that that bit of news has consoled young mccarthy for all that he has suffered .
that was it , sir
i was sleepy before you came .
no record of the doings of mr sherlock holmes would be complete which did not include some account of this very unusual affair .
on the d you incommoded me by the middle of february i was seriously inconvenienced by you at the end of march i was absolutely hampered in my plans and now , at the close of april , i find myself placed in such a position through your continual persecution that i am in positive danger of losing my liberty .
she had hardly listened to his instructions when she saw you coming downstairs , on which she closed the window rapidly and told you about one of the servants ' escapade with her wooden legged lover , which was all perfectly true .
the bird gave a gulp , and i felt the stone pass along its gullet and down into its crop .
the latter was blinking in the bright light of the corridor , and peering at us and at the smouldering fire .
vaguely i could discern the black bank of the trees and the lighter expanse of the moor , for the moon was behind the clouds .
pray sit down and tell me what is the matter .
it was from sherlock holmes and ran in this way :
he will be a desperate man , and though i shall take him unawares , it is as well to be ready for anything .
very well , indeed .
those were his very words .
am dining at goldini 's restaurant , gloucester road , kensington .
i think , dr mortimer , you would do wisely if without more ado you would kindly tell me plainly what the exact nature of the problem is in which you demand my assistance .
i know it , and i want you to start upon your work knowing it , too .
you walked round the room several times , and you knelt down by the body , and then you walked through and tried the kitchen door , and then
as the guard was a good two hundred paces away , however , and as the space between was cut up into a labyrinth of passages and corridors , i had great doubts as to whether they could arrive in time to be of any use in case of an actual attack .
i glanced down .
oh , i have heard coldstream guards .
one other neighbour i have met since i wrote last .
from the point of view of the man who called himself stapleton was simple and direct , although to us , who had no means in the beginning of knowing the motives of his actions and could only learn part of the facts , it all appeared exceedingly complex .
our second post is now overdue , and i shall be surprised if it does not bring us either a further letter of explanation , or , as is more probable , the very volume to which these figures refer .
i cannot , with this thought in my mind , ever again be happy under your roof , and i feel that i must leave you forever .
very possible .
i understand that you have already managed several delicate cases of this sort , sir , though i presume that they were hardly from the same class of society .
why the coal country ?
that is why i said , ' thank god .
the whole inexplicable tangle seemed to straighten out before me .
we planted them together , he and i , to mark the pathway through the mire .
easy , councillor , easy !
what a fool i have been !
you think it 's all safe about the copy ?
dr leslie armstrong sprang up from behind his desk , and his dark face was crimson with fury .
i emerged as you see me .
i say that he has .
i was convinced that mortimer tregennis was the murderer that for the sake of money , and with the idea , perhaps , that if the other members of his family were all insane he would be the sole guardian of their joint property , he had used the devil 's foot powder upon them , driven two of them out of their senses , and killed his sister brenda , the one human being whom i have ever loved or who has ever loved me .
eventually , as we know , she adopted the expedient of cutting out the words which would form the message , and addressing the letter in a disguised hand .
now , with an effort , he shrugged his shoulders and burst into insincere laughter .
a constable was standing at the kitchen door .
we could see the whitening of the nose where it was pressed against the glass .
it would appear that when the county delegate had sent over five good men to strike a blow in vermissa , he had demanded that in return three vermissa men should be secretly selected and sent across to kill william hales of stake royal , one of the best known and most popular mine owners in the gilmerton district , a man who was believed not to have an enemy in the world for he was in all ways a model employer .
mr carruthers has got a trap , and so the dangers of the lonely road , if there ever were any dangers , are now over .
pray take a seat , sir henry .
she would not herself stay in the house another day and was starting that very afternoon to rejoin her family at st .
not at all .
what else could i do if you trusted me ?
in your opinion there is a diabolical agency which makes dartmoor an unsafe abode for a baskerville that is your opinion ?
but why do you follow me ?
it takes a muscular , energetic fellow , and one with a good set of teeth , to do that .
a diamond , sir ?
i will wait for something that is worth while .
then he was versed in the life of the cities of the north , of detroit , and the lumber camps of michigan , and finally of chicago , where he had worked in a planing mill .
our answers were waiting for us at the police station , where i had directed algar to send them .
i deserve to be kicked from here to charing cross .
when i say that i started my pilgrimage at chicago , graduated in an irish secret society at buffalo , gave serious trouble to the constabulary at skibbareen , and so eventually caught the eye of a subordinate agent of von bork , who recommended me as a likely man , you will realize that the matter was complex .
but soon a happy thought came to me .
i am perfectly fresh now , and quite ready for another night 's outing .
let us look at it .
and you , too , dr watson .
with two such men as yourself and lestrade upon the ground , there will not be much for a third party to find out ,
so i shall , miss cushing .
scanlan burst out laughing .
she kept talking of what we should do in our future lives .
i could have done it in twenty four hours .
if we keep our courage and our patience the truth must come out .
i hardened my heart , and took the smoke rocket from under my ulster .
is she ?
and , first , as to how it came here .
about two feet at each side and three in the middle .
my husband died at atlanta .
in the meantime i should like to speak to the constable who found the body .
let us have a look at that !
and very wet it seems to have made you ,
you do n't seriously believe that ?
i had often suffered under it , but never more so than during that long drive in the darkness .
and what do you think of it all , watson ?
we may come on something later which will bear upon it .
the story of the bald headed man
it may lead us to something .
his nerves were so worked up that the appearance of any dog might have had a fatal effect upon his diseased heart .
they were married in january of last year .
it 's a claim that by the rules of this lodge takes precedence .
you can stand below at the door and see that the road is kept open for us .
it only remains for us to find out what this secret was which the sailor hudson seems to have held over the heads of these two wealthy and respected men .
he continued , flushing up at the sight of the bitter sneer upon the man 's face ,
it was useless for me to explain to him that his presence was an intrusion , for my italian was even more limited than his english , so i shrugged my shoulders resignedly , and continued to look out anxiously for my friend .
there was never any outline .
murder , if ever there was one upon earth .
i did not care to spend more money in a hopeless attempt at recovering them .
it fills me with hopes .
well , every man had enemies , but mr oldacre kept himself very much to himself , and only met people in the way of business .
i gave him such consolation as i might , but i thought of the pony on the grimpen mire , and i do not fancy that he will see his little dog again .
in extreme cases these rites take the form of human sacrifices followed by cannibalism .
it 's just what i would ask .
we looked with horror after the black carriage , lumbering upon its way .
what do you think of that , holmes ?
tell me straight , now !
we have not yet grasped the results which the reason alone can attain to .
lord st .
i went out , as if on some commission , and i made for my sister 's house .
holmes walked to the edge of the moat and looked across .
be the cause what it may , it was the end of the gloria scott and of the rabble who held command of her .
now and again a case turns up which is a little more complex .
i retired into it , and it was up to barker to do the rest .
it would only have made him mad to know , so we just fixed it all up for ourselves .
he walked down the road and went into one or two liquor shops , staying for nearly half an hour in the last of them .
there , mr holmes , you take me into regions of high international politics .
besides , you do not know how much we know of it .
i was heeled also , and i held up my gun to scare him off and let me get away .
this brixton road affair has upset you .
i did not wish her to tell me anything .
to my astonishment it was none other than my strange old book collector , his sharp , wizened face peering out from a frame of white hair , and his precious volumes , a dozen of them at least , wedged under his right arm .
the avenue opened into a broad expanse of turf , and the house lay before us .
because he was handy and would come cheap .
i think so .
i bowed .
but there are curious and suggestive details about the case , watson .
yes , yes , no doubt he is somewhere , and no doubt we shall get him but i would not have you waste your energies in east ham or liverpool .
if you imagine there is any connection
as the evening wore on his excitement became quite painful .
would you mind reading it to me aloud ?
yes , from horsham .
she cried in english , ' remember your promise after the last time .
but you are right you who say it was an accident .
i therefore cabled to my friend , wilson hargreave , of the new york police bureau , who has more than once made use of my knowledge of london crime .
there was not a bird to be seen there .
that 's how i read it ,
already ?
yes i shall not feel easy until i have told my story .
the blackish soil is kept forever soft by the incessant drift of spray , and a bird would leave its tread upon it .
march , ,
you must stay where you are all day .
then i heard a sudden sharp intake of her breath , and she sprang into the air with a cry of joy .
well , now i come to the queer part of my story .
stockwell place .
violence does , in truth , recoil upon the violent , and the schemer falls into the pit which he digs for another .
there are scholastic agencies by which one may identify any man who has been in the profession .
it is almost incredible , but the absurd sum of twelve hundred pounds would have settled the whole question .
it was a perfect day , with a bright sun and a few fleecy clouds in the heavens .
but , as a matter of fact , seven weeks elapsed .
there is a judge lynch that might try the case ,
cried the inspector ,
we could see the other side of the road and the park .
and now , mr barker , i seem to be standing rather in the way of your explanation .
but where is the rest of that sheet of paper ?
yes , and the bottle stands as they left it .
he exclaimed , wiping the perspiration from his forehead
the real murderer is standing immediately behind you .
that 's what they call it ,
as i dressed i glanced at my watch .
i looked round , and there was the tin box on the shelf .
nonsense , old chap !
i had read the account aloud to him , while he finished his breakfast .
then we went on to wallington to visit miss sarah .
you can pass through the door no one hinders .
i then took my gun and strolled out in the direction of the boscombe pool , with the intention of visiting the rabbit warren which is upon the other side .
i do n't suppose that it is of the slightest importance , but i thought you might care to see it , so i brought it with me .
the discovery that this was a dummy , and that the bed was clamped to the floor , instantly gave rise to the suspicion that the rope was there as a bridge for something passing through the hole and coming to the bed .
that would be toby .
he looked at me with venomous eyes .
after dusk .
at the present moment , for example , i should be writing a treatise instead of conversing with you .
the envelope was a very coarse one and was stamped with the gravesend postmark and with the date of that very day , or rather of the day before , for it was considerably after midnight .
my first thought was to get a better one .
in the first place , we may start with a strong presumption that colonel openshaw had some very strong reason for leaving america .
he is , in my judgment , the fourth smartest man in london , and for daring i am not sure that he has not a claim to be third .
bodies in the dissecting rooms are injected with preservative fluid .
i saw him myself , standing upon that chair and fixing the big picture above it .
holmes turned to his desk and , unlocking it , drew out a small case book , which he consulted .
next morning , after the office opened , they came to inquire .
this morning , being an early riser , he walked in that direction before breakfast and was overtaken by the carriage of dr richards , who explained that he had just been sent for on a most urgent call to tredannick wartha .
he knew our number , knew that sir henry baskerville had consulted me , spotted who i was in regent street , conjectured that i had got the number of the cab and would lay my hands on the driver , and so sent back this audacious message .
cyril overton was much excited .
it would take you days and days to exhaust them , if you set about it alone .
we saw him for a long time in the moonlight until he was only a small speck moving swiftly among the boulders upon the side of a distant hill .
i asks .
i left him here last night , and i heard him lock the door as i came down stairs .
ay , john mcginty , you may call me that if it eases your smart .
and to whom would this document be sent if it fell into the hands of an enemy ?
observed holmes as we walked away .
eglow , eglonitz here we are , egria .
i believe he is well up in anatomy , and he is a first class chemist but , as far as i know , he has never taken out any systematic medical classes .
to day the police traced them down and examined their caravan .
quite so .
we have had some skirmishes , but we had never set eyes upon each other before .
he is a brilliant fellow when he chooses to work one of the brightest intellects of the university but he is wayward , dissipated , and unprincipled .
it stood on a small pedestal table with an old dressing gown of holmes 's so draped round it that the illusion from the street was absolutely perfect .
you will n't tell ?
upon the linen .
it was very superficial , my dear watson , i assure you .
that is a detail which i shall speedily supply .
she told you all she knew , and so did barker here for on the night when this thing happened there was mighty little time for explanations .
so long as he was free in london , my life would really not have been worth living .
because she has said that she would send it on the day when the betrothal was publicly proclaimed .
the stable boy threw a light upon the matter by remembering that a farmer of that name lived some miles off , in the direction of east ruston .
it was indeed our visitor of the afternoon who came bustling in , dangling his glasses more vigorously than ever , and with a very perturbed expression upon his aristocratic features .
it was not a brutal countenance , but it was prim , hard , and stern , with a firm set , thin lipped mouth , and a coldly intolerant eye .
she muttered .
the poor boy was half crazed with grief , and yet he had to go to london to play this match , for he could not get out of it without explanations which would expose his secret .
he laughed , i remember , and shrugged his shoulders , and said there was no use denying anything to a woman , for she would have her way .
holmes was silent and buried in thought with a pained expression upon his face , as one who finds himself in a perplexing position .
besides , i do n't like that wooden legged man , wi ' his ugly face and outlandish talk .
you must go up , mr thaddeus , you must go up and look for yourself .
i hope that you will hear soon from mr smith .
explained the american .
yes , sir
the machine goes readily enough , but there is some stiffness in the working of it , and it has lost a little of its force .
ah , yes , i remember .
the skull was of enormous capacity , and yet as i looked down i saw to my amazement that the figure of the man was small and frail , twisted in the shoulders and back like one who has suffered from rickets in his childhood .
then i called at the offices round , but none of them seemed to know anything about it .
my mouth gets dry with the talking .
do you remember a box an ivory box ?
how long was she there ?
and you had best take a pull out of my flask , for you are very wet .
how , then , did you know of it ?
but when little mary was there i had never a thought of her , and that i swear as i hope for god 's mercy .
you are ready enough to use all the information that the police can lay at your disposal , and then you try to finish the case yourself and bring discredit on them .
the house stands in its own grounds , but the west side of it is not more than thirty yards from the high road .
the central portion was in little better repair , but the right hand block was comparatively modern , and the blinds in the windows , with the blue smoke curling up from the chimneys , showed that this was where the family resided .
then the intervening rocks hid them from his view .
a doctor , eh ?
beside it was a torn sheet of note paper with some words scrawled upon it .
you 're not hurt , i hope , miss ,
i think i will leave him to tell his very remarkable experience in his own fashion .
for god 's sake , go back to your room !
well , mr holmes , i admit that what you say is interesting : it 's more than interesting it 's just wonderful .
it seems that castalotte , our dear friend and benefactor , had been approached .
the iron work was two thirds of an inch thick all round .
on the very first day that i was at the copper beeches , mr rucastle took me to a small outhouse which stands near the kitchen door .
by binding you both to absolute secrecy for two years at the end of that time the matter will be of no importance .
he has been laid up with a hack , and once he slipped his knee cap , but that was nothing .
well , you will be surprised to hear that there is no stain on the white woodwork to correspond .
then it was that the lust of the chase would suddenly come upon him , and that his brilliant reasoning power would rise to the level of intuition , until those who were unacquainted with his methods would look askance at him as on a man whose knowledge was not that of other mortals .
i had a friend once called maudsley , who went to the bad , and has just been serving his time in pentonville .
suddenly small learns that the major is on his death bed .
if he thought he could keep me off by staying indoors he was very much mistaken .
because inspector martin from norwich has just passed through .
they 'd both been in the party that followed them , and stangerson had shot her father , which seemed to give him the best claim but when they argued it out in council , drebber 's party was the stronger , so the prophet gave her over to him .
it 's quite too funny .
but you will never see a drunkard 's watch without them .
yes , sir , it was i who sold dr barnicot his two statues .
the work itself , the pleasure of finding a field for my peculiar powers , is my highest reward .
so you have been to coombe tracey , have you ?
i cannot remain to discuss the matter with the police , but i should be exceedingly obliged , mr roundhay , if you would give the inspector my compliments and direct his attention to the bedroom window and to the sitting room lamp .
i think i should like to have a word with you presently , mr sherlock holmes ,
i 've seen you handle a good many cases , mr holmes , but i do n't know that i ever knew a more workmanlike one than that .
not guilty , my lord ,
has it returned to life and flapped off through the kitchen window ?
then let us do so .
i do , sir
but the many whose lives he had ruined , whose nearest and dearest had suffered torture and death at his hands , would not let the matter rest .
will you come with us ?
i shall not keep you waiting an instant ,
so far as i know , he and his wife are as respectable a couple as any in the county .
a long , low moan , indescribably sad , swept over the moor .
put that down , watson .
i had often endeavored to elicit from my companion what had first turned his mind in the direction of criminal research , but had never caught him before in a communicative humor .
she has fainted from ill usage and exhaustion .
this is my father , and his health is a matter of the most overwhelming importance to me .
few men were capable of greater muscular effort , and he was undoubtedly one of the finest boxers of his weight that i have ever seen but he looked upon aimless bodily exertion as a waste of energy , and he seldom bestirred himself save when there was some professional object to be served .
did you see mr barrymore ?
what impression has my evidence made upon you ?
your duty would be , as i am sure your good sense would suggest , to obey any little commands my wife might give , provided always that they were such commands as a lady might with propriety obey .
it was to him himself i was to tell it ,
i beg you to remember that no one knows where you are , and that , whether you are in this carriage or in my house , you are equally in my power .
and then , of course , there is the bell which is the most distinctive feature of the case .
for that reason i turned away from you this evening when you upset my books , for i was in danger at the time , and any show of surprise and emotion upon your part might have drawn attention to my identity and led to the most deplorable and irreparable results .
he went alone , at his own request , for he explained that any unnecessary footmarks might make his task more difficult .
wonderful !
it is indeed kind of you to come ,
he was indeed a scion of one of the very oldest families in the kingdom , though his branch was a cadet one which had separated from the northern musgraves some time in the sixteenth century , and had established itself in western sussex , where the manor house of hurlstone is perhaps the oldest inhabited building in the county .
the wood pile was very dry , for it had not rained for a month .
no bad ?
where 's mother ?
i told him about the chinese in the east end .
i should not like to suggest false hopes , miss morstan , but is there any resemblance between this hand and that of your father ?
i was struck dumb with astonishment at the sight of her but my emotions were nothing to those which showed themselves upon her face when our eyes met .
there was but one problem before the public which could challenge his powers of analysis , and that was the singular disappearance of the favorite for the wessex cup , and the tragic murder of its trainer .
a few moments later he was in our room , still puffing , still gesticulating , but with so fixed a look of grief and despair in his eyes that our smiles were turned in an instant to horror and pity .
his name was evans , but he afterwards changed it , like myself , and he is now a rich and prosperous man in the south of england .
i 'll take the responsibility of arresting him now .
i had come to ask you if you cared to come with me you and your friend here .
now , then , give him the pencil .
cried the american detective .
i have no doubt that i should have been arrested either at my city office or at my home .
you did not come here in a cab ?
i hope you 'll prove worth it .
show them in to me , khitmutgar ,
no doubt the day on which he was perturbed was the day when he had seen of their release in the newspapers .
now off you go !
if they come to arrest me before i have finished my story , make them give me time , so that i may tell you the whole truth .
nearer we came and nearer .
and it was of sealskin , and he was an old sealer .
the use of artificial means to make the creature diabolical was a flash of genius upon his part .
the lady sprang from her chair .
i fancy that in the future we have our own very definite plans about england , and that your information will be very vital to us .
if he has been kidnapped , it could not have been for anything which he himself possesses .
no , my dear fellow , i do n't think you can help me .
i could not quite understand the object of your questions this morning , sir henry ,
round one of his hands he had a handkerchief wrapped , which was mottled all over with bloodstains .
i know enough of law to understand that mary would be held as accomplice .
briefly , watson , i am in the midst of a very remarkable inquiry , and i have hoped to find a clue in the incoherent ramblings of these sots , as i have done before now .
have you seen the evening paper ?
her officers were the same as in ' , with one exception .
if you can catch the man , catch him , and let me know when you have done it .
you owe a very humble apology to that noble lad , your son , who has carried himself in this matter as i should be proud to see my own son do , should i ever chance to have one .
here was luck indeed !
there is no need why dr watson should realize ,
the head was badly crushed an injury which might well have been caused by a fall from the train .
this , gentlemen , is colonel sebastian moran , once of her majesty 's indian army , and the best heavy game shot that our eastern empire has ever produced .
yes , we shall make our little ambush here .
it was quarter to ten .
i saw it in a paper ,
he looked at his clerk as though he failed to recognize him , and i could see by the astonishment depicted upon our conductor 's face that this was by no means the usual appearance of his employer .
i can see that you are not satisfied .
he was just in time to see the lights of a small car come to a halt at the gate .
with a rending , tearing sound , one of the broad , white stones turned over upon its side and left a square , gaping hole , through which streamed the light of a lantern .
she is swift in making up her mind and fearless in carrying out her resolutions .
holmes drew one of the chairs into a corner and sat silent , while his eyes travelled round and round and up and down , taking in every detail of the apartment .
i had heard of him before as being a man of evil reputation among women .
there goes the reward !
the inspector took one from an envelope and handed it to him .
with pleasure .
she put it down on her lap as we entered and looked at us with her frank , searching blue eyes .
use your powers !
we followed the indian down a sordid and common passage , ill lit and worse furnished , until he came to a door upon the right , which he threw open .
at least that was my first impression .
was it possible that we could bring him back to her ?
he will come .
already , you see ,
where 's sarah ?
finding that holmes was too absorbed for conversation i had tossed aside the barren paper , and leaning back in my chair i fell into a brown study .
i could not help laughing at the ease with which he explained his process of deduction .
that 's the road to the left .
he is a man of forty , married , with five children .
you are sure that there is no wound ?
then he crossed the room , and shook our visitor by the hand .
the first difficulty which we had to contend with was the finding of this american 's antecedents .
the other closed the door .
because i have written and asked him .
had you noticed anything unusual in his conduct , yesterday , ames ?
tut , tut , walters .
you will all be in the big room same as you saw when you had a chat with me .
they may want to know what we have spoken about .
a buzz of pleasure and welcome greeted him as he entered .
as to miss violet hunter , my friend holmes , rather to my disappointment , manifested no further interest in her when once she had ceased to be the centre of one of his problems , and she is now the head of a private school at walsall , where i believe that she has met with considerable success .
he grazed his cattle on these slopes , and he learned to dig for tin when the bronze sword began to supersede the stone axe .
he is not a bad fellow , though an absolute imbecile in his profession .
where the two walls joined , several bricks had been loosened , and the crevices left were worn down and rounded upon the lower side , as though they had frequently been used as a ladder .
oh , do not waste the so precious time , but come !
there is the pension to jim carnaway 's widow .
white mason continued .
at what o clock did mr drebber leave your house for the train ?
he flew at me with his knife , and i had to grasp him twice , and got a cut over the knuckles , before i had the upper hand of him .
on an emergency he could keep the hound in the out house at merripit , but it was always a risk , and it was only on the supreme day , which he regarded as the end of all his efforts , that he dared do it .
no , i have not .
i could not shoot him at sight , or i should myself be in the dock .
i would engage a launch and go down the river on the track of the aurora .
i had come to a theory of the crime in which i can find no place for this .
about sixty but his constitution has been shattered by his life abroad , and he has been in failing health for some time .
he 's gone for the dog !
why , then , was he picked out from all the other people whom garcia met as particularly suited to his purpose ?
i claim the right to examine that parcel before you pick the money up .
here we dismissed our cab , and made our way up the drive together .
in the window was a sumptuous writing desk , and every detail of the apartment , the pictures , the rugs , and the hangings , all pointed to a taste which was luxurious to the verge of effeminacy .
i took them and the purse and the telegram , intending to have them put in a place of safety at the police station .
for example , in dr barnicot 's hall , where a sound might arouse the family , the bust was taken outside before being broken , whereas in the surgery , where there was less danger of an alarm , it was smashed where it stood .
near the foot of the bed stood a dish of oranges and a carafe of water .
so , between the old sinner and the young one the girl has had a pretty bad time .
thank you .
you mean that the thing is supernatural ?
besides , with this crowd about , it was well that she should have someone near to look after her .
i fancy that he really did see something of the kind upon that last night in the yew alley .
i can see nothing ,
my name is lord mount james .
he took a piece of white paper folded up out of his waistcoat pocket .
well , anyhow , he had never seen one .
i gasped .
his secretary , mr stangerson , said that there were two trains one at .
it would have been an easier task a week ago ,
here he kept his wife imprisoned in her room while he , disguised in a beard , followed dr mortimer to baker street and afterwards to the station and to the northumberland hotel .
there is a house indicated here which may be the residence of the naturalist stapleton , if i remember right , was his name .
inspector martin and i had listened with the utmost interest to the full and clear account of how my friend had produced results which had led to so complete a command over our difficulties .
you will n't find the laugh on your side , i promise you .
i am well convinced that his ministers that the usual official channels have not been employed .
mr john turner ,
ay , bodies , watson .
cried mcginty , his huge chest rising and falling .
ah , it bolted , and was cared for by one of your neighbors .
besides , this refers to the monday , and the crime was done upon the wednesday .
as i turn over the pages , i see my notes upon the repulsive story of the red leech and the terrible death of crosby , the banker .
our friend here is a wonderful man for starting a chase .
certainly , there is a boy who seems to have some secret errand .
he has rushed about the moor in a crazy state and eventually fallen over here and broken his neck .
it may do something to simplify what followed .
you vill soon be as bad as the rest .
i often think of those lines of old goethe ,
there is no crime to detect , or , at most , some bungling villainy with a motive so transparent that even a scotland yard official can see through it .
i should not be very much surprised if this were he whose step i hear now upon the stair .
well , the name has a familiar sound .
he caught me first by the wrist and then by the throat .
i had a chat with him on eclipses .
he has been ten years in the service and has done good work .
what is it ?
there was no promise of a speedy departure in his composed bearing and his comfortable attitude .
let me advise you , then , to return to norbury , and to examine the windows of the cottage again .
i knew that someone had entered the house cautiously from without .
i think that there you ask a little too much ,
they were as nearly as possible captured red handed .
there was indeed the sound of shouting in the street , and a little group of compositors and pressmen was forming in the hall below and nerving itself to action .
why , whatever is the matter with mr holmes ?
porlock is important , not for himself , but for the great man with whom he is in touch .
it was mr roundhay , the vicar , who sent me the telegram which recalled me .
is there no circumstance on which this whole case appears to hinge ?
it was a very ordinary black hat of the usual round shape , hard and much the worse for wear .
well , now , in considering this case there are two points about young mccarthy 's narrative which struck us both instantly , although they impressed me in his favour and you against him .
your discretion is as well known as your powers , and you are the one man in the world who can help me .
nearly two months .
the letters were still legible , but it was perfectly clear from their blurred appearance , and from the staining of the skin round them , that efforts had been made to obliterate them .
here 's another match .
to ruin me .
i have taken you fully into my confidence now , mr hatherley , and i have shown you how i trust you .
i am a born sportsman .
it looks as if the man got into the house after four when the curtains were drawn , and before six when the bridge was raised .
there are seventy five perfumes , which it is very necessary that a criminal expert should be able to distinguish from each other , and cases have more than once within my own experience depended upon their prompt recognition .
these , we presume , indicated the nature of the papers which had been destroyed by colonel openshaw .
what luck , mr holmes ?
still a quarter of an hour ,
perhaps you would prefer at once to go on to the scene of the crime , mr holmes ?
it is all right , martha .
you have observed , of course ,
i am not aware that in all our joint researches we have ever had a case which was more difficult to get at .
whose was it ?
the man was seen .
and not a very obscure cipher , watson ,
i went and saw him .
your suggestion , sir , is a most absurd one .
i never needed it more ,
yes , it was only put there a couple of years ago .
we had to burn their breaker last year before they became reasonable .
your instinct is always to do something energetic .
holmes looked triumphantly at bannister .
the ground floor windows were within a foot of the surface of the water .
i am glad you raised the point .
i came round as quickly as the bayswater bus would bring me .
we may take it , then , that she does not carry it about with her .
if you seriously desire to deceive me you must change your tobacconist for when i see the stub of a cigarette marked bradley , oxford street , i know that my friend watson is in the neighbourhood .
if you but make such reparation as is in your power , by telling us where the beryls are , all shall be forgiven and forgotten .
if you like , we shall drive round together after luncheon .
on thursday the prisoner will be brought before the magistrates , and your attendance will be required .
he rushed down , just as he was , in his bare feet , opened the window , sprang out into the snow , and ran down the lane , where he could see a dark figure in the moonlight .
it 's attempted murder at the least .
i have heard it .
that is how he speaks the other one !
this , then , is the stage upon which tragedy has been played , and upon which we may help to play it again .
see here , sir !
you can see for yourselves that i had struck the limit .
the man will carry your bags .
i 've had a nasty facer myself , but ' that was all i could hear , but it was enough to set me thinking .
that is the truth .
then i locked the door and went to my room .
my first feeling of fear had passed away , and i thrilled now with a keener zest than i had ever enjoyed when we were the defenders of the law instead of its defiers .
he tied her up , therefore , that she might have no chance of warning sir henry , and he hoped , no doubt , that when the whole countryside put down the baronet 's death to the curse of his family , as they certainly would do , he could win his wife back to accept an accomplished fact and to keep silent upon what she knew .
i brought it over to england , and on the night of morstan 's arrival he came straight over here to claim his share .
do n't do it before us .
lay in the fact of there being too much evidence .
one is the scullery maid , who sleeps in the other wing .
it was no easy task to move von bork , for he was a strong and a desperate man .
she exclaimed , trying to raise it .
it is equally clear that his enemies , lying in wait for him near your door , mistook your husband for him in the foggy morning light .
what , you 're on his track ?
you did not tell me that you intended to go into harness .
you 've lived near me for some weeks , watson .
the avenue ran through a noble park , between lines of ancient elms , and ended in a low , widespread house , pillared in front after the fashion of palladio .
that one word , my dear watson , should have told me the whole story had i been the ideal reasoner which you are so fond of depicting .
he was seated at a table , with his back turned and a letter in front of him .
you heard me warn this man at birlstone manor house that the coming danger was greater than the past .
never mind him .
not a day .
besides ,
i tried it when i came to croydon , and we kept on until about two months ago , when we had to part .
he drew a sovereign from his pocket and threw it down upon the slab , turning away with the air of a man whose disgust is too deep for words .
here is the old man ,
holmes laid his hand upon the inspector 's shoulder .
it is kate whitney .
as he came forward his eyes fell upon the group , silent and motionless , under the engine house .
our man on the beat saw a light there about two in the morning , and as the house was an empty one , suspected that something was amiss he found the door open , and in the front room , which is bare of furniture , discovered the body of a gentleman , well dressed , and having cards in his pocket bearing the name of ' enoch j .
he is a little queer in his ideas an enthusiast in some branches of science .
i have a dim recollection of a group of officials who crowded round me , endeavoring to soothe me .
i saw you ride down from his house .
how long has he been ill ?
from the first day i met her , she was the only woman to me .
it was a bitterly cold night , with a half moon shining brilliantly in a frosty , star spangled sky .
i have examined the ground very carefully for a hundred yards in each direction .
she was never happy at home , miss alice was n't , from the time that her father married again .
they can go everywhere , see everything , overhear every one .
when we brought our launch alongside he was so firmly anchored that it was only by throwing the end of a rope over his shoulders that we were able to haul him out , and to drag him , like some evil fish , over our side .
i chose his launch because i heard that she was a flier .
i had remained indoors all day , for the weather had taken a sudden turn to rain , with high autumnal winds , and the jezail bullet which i had brought back in one of my limbs as a relic of my afghan campaign throbbed with dull persistence .
mr jabez wilson laughed heavily .
it was a wild night .
i have not yet made up my mind .
where are the marks of its fangs ?
ah , too few !
he is a lecturer and a consultant , but he does not care for general practice , which distracts him from his literary work .
in my mind i set it down as an impossible performance , save in the unlikely case that she had a second pair of glasses .
do n't let him out !
let us glance at our continental gazetteer .
anyone could pick him at once as gregarious in his habits and communicative in his nature , with a quick wit and a ready smile .
so far it holds together .
my friend 's plans were gradually revealing themselves .
picture to yourself the pilot fish with the shark , the jackal with the lion anything that is insignificant in companionship with what is formidable : not only formidable , watson , but sinister in the highest degree sinister .
we opened it , and the light of the lantern gleamed upon a collection of gems such as i have read of and thought about when i was a little lad at pershore .
again , it is unusual for burglars to operate at so early an hour , it is unusual for burglars to strike a lady to prevent her screaming , since one would imagine that was the sure way to make her scream , it is unusual for them to commit murder when their numbers are sufficient to overpower one man , it is unusual for them to be content with a limited plunder when there was much more within their reach , and finally , i should say , that it was very unusual for such men to leave a bottle half empty .
what could she mean by that note , mr holmes ?
they have been turning out half crowns by the thousand .
his face was flushed with anger , and he held an old and dusty boot in one of his hands .
if i could lay my hands upon that man , then at last we might find ourselves at the end of all our difficulties .
then either in cold blood or in the course of a struggle douglas may have gripped the hammer that was found upon the mat he shot douglas in this horrible way .
this seemed to establish that the crime had been done in a moment of fury , and that the murderer had seized the first weapon which came in his way .
well , my own was at stake , you know ,
i had left my chair and was gazing at it over his shoulder .
this is his statement as made before inspector montgomery at the shadwell police station , and it has the advantage of being verbatim .
it was a sweet , simple country spot , but i was surprised to observe that by the gate there stood two soldierly men in dark uniforms who leaned upon their short rifles and glanced keenly at us as we passed .
this is a little too much .
i went up to the house with the inspector , and saw all that was to be seen .
have you ever known him ill ?
now it returned .
i heard the creature hiss as i have no doubt that you did also , and i instantly lit the light and attacked it .
i cried .
i could see that she was pretty , and from the gloss with which the light shone upon her dark dress i knew that it was a rich material .
i think it is clear enough .
i stowed them all discreetly away in my overcoat and drove straight to the address given .
with a sigh of relief , ferrier looked to right and to left , until happening to glance straight down at his own feet he saw to his astonishment a man lying flat upon his face upon the ground , with arms and legs all asprawl .
i warned the inmates of the house , so as to avoid a second tragedy , and we went down , with the happiest results .
they have perished , and by my hand .
first of all , i wish to know whether there is any inn in this neighbourhood known as ' elrige ' s ' ?
so it was that mcmurdo , the self confessed fugitive from justice , took up his abode under the roof of the shafters , the first step which was to lead to so long and dark a train of events , ending in a far distant land .
you are an early bird , mr mac ,
so you actually thought that i was the criminal ?
the episode of the barrel
when i touched him on the shoulder and warned him to come quietly with us , he answered us as bold as brass , ' i suppose you are arresting me for being concerned in the death of that scoundrel drebber , ' he said .
indeed , i have found that it is usually in unimportant matters that there is a field for the observation , and for the quick analysis of cause and effect which gives the charm to an investigation .
many a time when the master has rolled up his sleeves i have noticed that very mark .
he picked the volume from his desk .
the blow has always fallen at the end of the time which it would take the senders to travel the distance .
yes , indeed , i know him very well .
it told how two englishmen who had been traveling with a woman had met with a tragic end .
there may be a hundred crimes in the background , but it is only on this one that they can be tried .
with my body in one easy chair and my legs upon another , i had surrounded myself with a cloud of newspapers until at last , saturated with the news of the day , i tossed them all aside and lay listless , watching the huge crest and monogram upon the envelope upon the table and wondering lazily who my friend 's noble correspondent could be .
we had left reading far behind us before he thrust the last one of them under the seat , and offered me his cigar case .
you may remember the old persian saying , ' there is danger for him who taketh the tiger cub , and danger also for whoso snatches a delusion from a woman .
you 'll find it through the length and breadth of the states , but always as an innocent one .
i still retain in my scrap book numerous clippings and extracts bearing upon the case .
if they are really good specimens great heavens , is it you ?
on the other hand , i brought a bit of plaster down and put it where i am wearing one myself at this instant .
but godfrey is a fine lad a staunch lad .
there may be nothing in it .
good heavens !
i have no objection ,
suppose that some one turned up in your place who wrote a completely different hand from that in which you had applied for the vacancy , of course the game would have been up .
the inner one was still there , and lay forty feet in breadth , though now only a few feet in depth , round the whole house .
his words were cut short by a sudden scream of help !
but , indeed , if you are trivial , i cannot blame you , for the days of the great cases are past .
you have heard , no doubt , that his wedding ring has been taken .
there is a god in heaven , mr holmes , and that same god who has punished that wicked man will show , in his own good time , that my son 's hands are guiltless of his blood .
i trust that you do n't consider your collection closed .
because this stick , though originally a very handsome one has been so knocked about that i can hardly imagine a town practitioner carrying it .
it is as much as my own life is worth to be seen talking with you .
you are engaged , as i understand , to dine with our friends the stapletons tonight .
it might be a description of watson .
i think that i may go so far as to say , watson , that i have not lived wholly in vain ,
well , what is the next step ?
i nearly called out in my joy and my amazement .
in that case , your grace , since you have yourself stated that any unhappiness in your married life was caused by his presence i would suggest that you make such amends as you can to the duchess , and that you try to resume those relations which have been so unhappily interrupted .
he was a tall , savage looking young fellow , mounted on a powerful roan horse , and clad in the rough dress of a hunter , with a long rifle slung over his shoulders .
i 'd never rest easy again .
but then , when i found how i had betrayed myself , i began to think .
we have to go , eliza .
cried morris piteously .
the duke leaned back in his chair and stared with amazement at my friend .
it is very late , and i should desire the interview to be as short as possible .
i cried .
that that tottering , feeble old woman was able to get out of the cab while it was in motion , without either you or the driver seeing her ?
i have solved it .
this should be the village of trumpington to the right of us .
far from feeling guilty , i rejoiced and exulted in our dangers .
did you ask her whether in leaving she met any one or saw any one loitering about charles street ?
we had not to go far .
the blood flushed into his high forehead , but his conscience held him dumb .
if your grace wishes
i have already examined the old stock exchange lists , and i can find no one in , either in the house or among the outside brokers , whose initials correspond with these .
how could they have decoyed him down there ?
this man was with me in my saloon playing poker up to midnight , and i can bring a dozen to prove it .
i am afraid that i rather give myself away when i explain ,
i was able to cover it up .
the moment you arrive you will send a wire to sir henry baskerville , in my name , to say that if he finds the pocketbook which i have dropped he is to send it by registered post to baker street .
no wonder that my inquiries among those villagers led to nothing .
close to the rude landing stage was a small brick house , with a wooden placard slung out through the second window .
i hope to god you 'll be able to tell me .
then we will examine the dining room together .
his voice was like thunder in our little house .
let us go farther .
and no more words were needed .
the line of investigation which i have myself been pursuing .
no doubt you think that you are complimenting me in comparing me to dupin ,
she was a beautiful woman , tall , dark , and slender , some twenty years younger than her husband a disparity which seemed in no wise to mar the contentment of their family life .
the body was found at six on tuesday morning .
but he had no pipe .
then sherlock holmes pulled down from the shelf one of the ponderous commonplace books in which he placed his cuttings .
i perceive that you have been unwell lately .
it does , sherlock , and yet it leaves so much unexplained .
he was a thin , gruff , bespectacled man of middle age , his cheeks haggard , and his hands twitching from the nervous strain to which he had been subjected .
the possession of this trifling bust was worth more , in the eyes of this strange criminal , than a human life .
as her glasses are of remarkable strength , and as opticians are not very numerous , there should be no difficulty in tracing her .
her dry lips could not speak the no which i saw rather than heard .
certainly , holmes .
it was a dreadful cry that he gave a yell which might have been heard down the street .
ah , you have a right to know about him .
no smell ?
i should be glad to get away as soon after breakfast as possible , so as to reach london in the afternoon .
too narrow for anyone to pass through .
now where did they come from ?
a few minutes later she brought in three covers , and we all drew up to the table , holmes ravenous , i curious , and phelps in the gloomiest state of depression .
what did he write it with ?
at night he flung himself down among the rocks , and snatched a few hours of sleep but before daybreak he was always well on his way .
well , we can let that be bygones for , between you and me and perhaps i 'm going further than my duty in saying it they could get no clear case against you , and chicago 's open to you to morrow .
i charge you , sir , to remember the packet .
his arm was round her , but it seemed to me that she was straining away from him with her face averted .
you are as thin as a lath and as brown as a nut .
now , soames , i am going to ask you to have the great kindness to go up to the room of young gilchrist , and to ask him to step down into yours .
the boys will think none the worse of you , whatever you may have done .
you know him , do you not ?
but her brother was well up to the front .
so far we are within the bounds of possibility , are we not ?
i promised the new brother he should go ,
they were very cunning , though .
if you really mean it , of course you shall have the money ,
it drew blood .
blindly we ran through the gloom , blundering against boulders , forcing our way through gorse bushes , panting up hills and rushing down slopes , heading always in the direction whence those dreadful sounds had come .
by the way , there does not seem to be any very pressing need for repairs at that end wall .
i stooped in some confusion and began to pick up the fruit , understanding for some reason my companion desired me to take the blame upon myself .
are legible upon the lining of this hat , but as there are some thousands of bakers , and some hundreds of henry bakers in this city of ours , it is not easy to restore lost property to any one of them .
they are young and rich , and of the true faith .
but it 's the common lot this morning .
well , since i am here , there is one point on which i should like to feel sure .
it 's a fine evening , and there 's some open ground beyond the next block .
i have carried it about with me , and have followed him and his accomplice over two continents until i caught them .
you would n't believe harm of your poor old father , would you , lad ?
he has not been home for two days .
when water is near and a weight is missing it is not a very far fetched supposition that something has been sunk in the water .
still on the track of the elusive bicyclist ?
as we approached the forbidding and squalid inn , with the sign of a game cock above the door , holmes gave a sudden groan , and clutched me by the shoulder to save himself from falling .
on monday .
a thin film of recent mud was left upon his skin .
there were twenty fifty pound notes of the bank of england , held together by an india rubber band nothing else .
he quietly shot back a panel in the upper part of the door and glanced through .
i swear to you that i will .
i 'm used to rough work but i fairly turned sick at the sight of him .
when i first came up to london i had rooms in montague street , just round the corner from the british museum , and there i waited , filling in my too abundant leisure time by studying all those branches of science which might make me more efficient .
hullo !
why should you raise up hopes which you are bound to disappoint ?
a small but well kept house in the outskirts of the town sheltered the bereaved mother .
the answer is obvious .
in that way all the beeswing would be in the last glass , would it not ?
i thought of the assistant 's fondness for photography , and his trick of vanishing into the cellar .
well , he was n't altogether such an easy gentleman to describe .
as far as the eye can reach stretches the great flat plain land , all dusted over with patches of alkali , and intersected by clumps of the dwarfish chaparral bushes .
if he comes browsing about this farm , he might chance to run up against a charge of buckshot travelling in the opposite direction .
a cold and melancholy walk of a couple of miles brought us to a high wooden gate , which opened into a gloomy avenue of chestnuts .
you aided her to escape .
you will walk down with me now to the police station .
it is always awkward doing business with an alias .
now it has , you see , been twice mended , once in the wooden stem and once in the amber .
well , time 's up , and i 'll just say
i told them that he was gone to europe and that i did not know where to find him .
it was nearly nine o clock when i found myself in the sitting room once more .
you will remember that your lodge owes us a return , having had the service of two brethren in the matter of the patrolman last fall .
sherlock holmes placed the subjoined paper before us .
my lips were parted to murmur out some sleepy words of surprise or remonstrance at this untimely preparation , when suddenly my half opened eyes fell upon her face , illuminated by the candle light , and astonishment held me dumb .
looked at more closely , i should certainly say that it was a curious case .
charles augustus milverton was a man of fifty , with a large , intellectual head , a round , plump , hairless face , a perpetual frozen smile , and two keen gray eyes , which gleamed brightly from behind broad , gold rimmed glasses .
that every essential is already known .
the window is a long french one , which really forms a door leading to the lawn .
yes , i do , though .
what say you to that ?
and his age ?
it is possible that i speak as a child , but to me it seems that willoughby smith has met his fate by his own hand .
he came back alone , for lestrade was staying in lodgings in the town .
just a suggestion , perhaps .
i have heard no evidence yet that any stranger was ever in the house at all .
he was dressed in rusty black , with a very broad brimmed top hat and a loose white necktie the whole effect being that of a very rustic parson or of an undertaker 's mute .
well , do you see the low hill beyond with the thornbush upon it ?
petersburg they had departed for paris and when he followed them there he learned that they had just set off for copenhagen .
i cried .
well , at least i have got their identity .
but milverton never looked up .
i cannot shut my eyes but i see those two faces staring at me staring at me as they stared when my boat broke through the haze .
an ' i knows where the men he is after are .
what are you driving at ?
no , mrs straker .
i confess , too , that i was irritated by the egotism which seemed to demand that every line of my pamphlet should be devoted to his own special doings .
now i have told you all .
oh , easily enough ,
i went up to my london rooms , where i spent seven weeks working out a few experiments in organic chemistry .
he must have been holding it as a signal ,
i followed him to the top of a very lofty stair , and there , right under the slates , were a couple of empty , dusty little rooms , uncarpeted and uncurtained , into which he led me .
holmes brushed him aside without a word and , followed by all of us , rushed into the room which had been occupied by the man whom we had been watching .
we want to know , mr gilchrist , how you , an honourable man , ever came to commit such an action as that of yesterday ?
and now , my dear watson , we have had some weeks of severe work , and for one evening , i think , we may turn our thoughts into more pleasant channels .
both of the women concerned in the case , mrs stapleton and mrs laura lyons , were left with a strong suspicion against stapleton .
he had , when he so willed it , the utter immobility of countenance of a red indian , and i could not gather from his appearance whether he was satisfied or not with the position of the case .
evans pott was his name , and even the great boss of vermissa felt towards him something of the repulsion and fear which the huge danton may have felt for the puny but dangerous robespierre .
this , however , is the readiest and , since fortune has put it into our hands , i should be culpable if i neglected it .
well , well !
well , i am .
he held in his hand a sheet of blue paper , scrawled over with notes and figures .
but that 's all past now .
of course , i 've heard of the hound ever since i was in the nursery .
it was impossible for us , therefore , to station a strong guard at every one of the innumerable gates .
now let us consider the situation and see what may be deduced from it .
so it was , my dear watson , that at two o clock to day i found myself in my old armchair in my own old room , and only wishing that i could have seen my old friend watson in the other chair which he has so often adorned .
what do you make of it ?
served in india , i see .
it came away from the skin so readily that hardly any mark was left behind .
now he is peering across .
political assassins are only too glad to do their work and to fly .
i say a night 's work , but an hour 's would be nearer the mark .
anyway , my resolution is taken .
when the maid entered , about seven , there the unfortunate fellow was hanging in the middle of the room .
we did not go very far along the road , for holmes stopped the instant that the curve hid us from the landlord 's view .
as he might get an excellent smoke for half the price , he has no need to practise economy .
i put them there myself .
even the triumphant issue of his labors could not save him from reaction after so terrible an exertion , and at a time when europe was ringing with his name and when his room was literally ankle deep with congratulatory telegrams i found him a prey to the blackest depression .
i suppose that you would know him when you saw him ?
what your motives are , or what exact part you play in this strange business , i am not yet able to say .
that is clear enough but what is not so clear is why at sight of us one of the rogues should instantly walk out of the room and hang himself .
crouching among the stones we stared intently at the silver tipped bank in front of us .
i should be able to look after that for you .
but am i addressing dr watson ?
there was no change in door or window this morning , or any reason to think that any stranger had been to the house .
leaning on the table , he rapidly turned over the leaves of this volume until he came to the entry which he sought .
the van dashed round by marylebone lane and was gone in an instant .
that you are gettin ' set on my ettie .
some poaching case , no doubt ?
very good we shall wire to him , and see if all is well , and if a clerk of your name is working there .
the other man ?
would the body be dressed in a coat alone ?
a side slip ,
my life is spent in one long effort to escape from the commonplaces of existence .
you have saved my life .
we know , also , that he ran across the lawn , entered the room , accompanied by a strange animal , and that he either struck the colonel or , as is equally possible , that the colonel fell down from sheer fright at the sight of him , and cut his head on the corner of the fender .
they are never sold upon hats .
every now and then , by an effort , he would throw off the impression , and talk as if the matter were clear , but then his doubts would settle down upon him again , and his knitted brows and abstracted eyes would show that his thoughts had gone back once more to the great dining room of the abbey grange , in which this midnight tragedy had been enacted .
have you it here ?
gentlemen ,
i shall have this matter probed to the bottom .
finally , after the death of tregennis , you withdrew as you had come .
the coachman , a hard faced , gnarled little fellow , saluted sir henry baskerville , and in a few minutes we were flying swiftly down the broad , white road .
it was the cry of a hound .
now , my dear sir ,
his whole life appears to be spent in an alternation between savage fits of passion and gloomy intervals of sulking .
and there was nothing else ?
there was no furniture save a little pallet bed , a small table , and a basketful of linen .
now , if he had borrowed my money , or if he had married me and got my money settled on him , there might be some reason , but hosmer was very independent about money and never would look at a shilling of mine .
terms agreed to .
surely ,
cried the colonel .
it seemed to me to be obvious that this greek girl had been carried off by the young englishman named harold latimer .
but i guess you can give him a pretty severe warning .
i shouted .
i had heard nothing of him by breakfast time .
i was in the bar , and a garrulous landlord was giving me all that i wanted .
he hurried for the door , and knocked in his peculiar way .
that note only reached her yesterday ,
never mind ,
you have defied the prophet and the council of four .
quick , quick , or it 'll be too late !
all that i have to say has already crossed your mind ,
it seems , from what i gather , to be one of those simple cases which are so extremely difficult .
you see how easy it was for me to lay my hands upon you when once i had started upon the right trail .
we were all guilty if that is guilt but he was not .
you must stand clear , mr holmes , or be trodden under foot .
botany variable , geology profound as regards the mud stains from any region within fifty miles of town , chemistry eccentric , anatomy unsystematic , sensational literature and crime records unique , violin player , boxer , swordsman , lawyer , and self poisoner by cocaine and tobacco .
i am stapleton , of merripit house .
do what you can for me .
i sat up half the night hugging myself over it , and next day i was off to birmingham in a train that would take me in plenty time for my appointment .
if so , it would tell against this man simpson .
if i had not every confidence in your nerve and courage i would not suggest it , but it is essential that you should do it .
no , but the enclosure is .
all my lines of thought lead me back invariably to the one basic question why should an athletic man develop his frame upon so unnatural an instrument as a single dumb bell ?
so , by the process of exclusion , we arrive at the fact that he made his way toward charlington hall , which , as i understand , is situated in its own grounds on one side of the road .
i am so glad to have your friends here , not only as an escort to you , but also as witnesses to what i am about to do and say .
the group of trees , with their dark leaves shining like burnished metal in the light of the setting sun , were sufficient to mark the house even had miss hunter not been standing smiling on the door step .
the old wheel turns , and the same spoke comes up .
i drew your attention to it but with the pressure of other events you had hardly the time to give it the consideration which would have enabled you to draw deductions from it .
the outhouse was the simplest of dwellings , wooden walled , shingle roofed , one window beside the door and one on the farther side .
he cried , throwing his fat hands out into the air like a man who is in a boiling passion .
where do you want to go ?
do i make it clear ?
the incident however , was too trivial to relate and can have no possible bearing upon the case .
but holmes smiled and shook his head .
holmes smiled .
so now , you see , we begin to visualize a large book printed in double columns which are each of a considerable length , since one of the words is numbered in the document as the two hundred and ninety third .
but the second was criticism .
well , i do n't see that it would make much matter to you , anyhow .
no offense , stranger ,
if my hair would only change colour , here 's a nice little crib all ready for me to step into .
most remarkable !
he did the round of the house every night , for he was nervous of fire .
exactly .
it could not be delirium .
i must try and make something of it ,
at the point where the path passes through the gate , you could surely pick up the tracks ?
i took the marriage ring from her dead finger , and i vowed that his dying eyes should rest upon that very ring , and that his last thoughts should be of the crime for which he was punished .
and from the same cause ,
then it flashed through my mind that the pain of my death would depend very much upon the position in which i met it .
why not ?
it was a most furious assault .
cried mortimer tregennis , white to his lips .
and a mask ?
we shall have some cold supper before we start .
he shrunk still further away as i spoke , and i could see on his face that he thought i was mad .
our whole lives are at stake in this .
do you know , watson ,
my mother and i were left without a relation in the world except one uncle , ralph smith , who went to africa twenty five years ago , and we have never had a word from him since .
you will swear , then , by the bones of your father , by the honor of your mother , by the cross of your faith , to raise no hand and speak no word against us , either now or afterwards ?
no one could pass these shutters if they were bolted .
during two weeks i drove behind them every day , and never once saw them separate .
sherlock holmes led me to the nearest telegraph office , whence he dispatched a long telegram .
this is , indeed , like the old days .
but it has twice been burgled .
and here i find you , a man of sense , boggling about terms , when your client 's future and honour are at stake .
when we returned to my father his head had dropped and his pulse had ceased to beat .
it is of the utmost importance .
henderson ,
well , then ,
he tried desperately to say something else , and he held his right hand up in the air .
the whole story told by barker is a lie .
the letter which had been the messenger of death for milverton lay , all mottled with his blood , upon the table .
frighten !
to morrow is the last day of grace , and unless we can get the letters to night , this villain will be as good as his word and will bring about her ruin .
i suppose that you can get rid of your boarders when you wish .
the same writing ,
he saw him once or twice , but he is a deep one and gives nothing away .
there are some points about that document , lestrade , are there not ?
there were none .
yet there were two thoughts which sealed the words of affection upon my lips .
but you should hear the latest news .
in victoria !
one day in early spring he had so far relaxed as to go for a walk with me in the park , where the first faint shoots of green were breaking out upon the elms , and the sticky spear heads of the chestnuts were just beginning to burst into their five fold leaves .
and sit in the dark ?
this is really most grati most interesting .
the doctors examined her for it , but without success .
that seems simple enough ,
between your brandy and your bandage , i feel a new man .
the panel had closed again behind me , but the crash of the lamp , and a few moments afterwards the clang of the two slabs of metal , told me how narrow had been my escape .
no , no the end is matted .
why , of course , that would explain it .
we had heard of his presence in the district and had once or twice caught sight of his tall figure upon the moorland paths .
a hundred and four .
this i presume is your celebrated friend , mr sherlock holmes ?
they mean it , and you can bet they 'll get there !
what a weight from my heart .
it is nothing less than the ancient crown of the kings of england .
his nerves have been strangely shaken by that sound upon the moor .
a lady dressed in black and heavily veiled , who had been sitting in the window , rose as we entered .
a door suddenly flew open out of what appeared to be solid wall at the end of the corridor , and a little , wizened man darted out of it , like a rabbit out of its burrow .
cried both the colonel and myself .
why should a man walk on tiptoe down the alley ?
they were not long in coming .
good night to you .
until the foreigners had invented that for themselves they could not make the boat .
according to your idea , there was never any hidden menace , or secret society , or valley of fear , or boss macsomebody , or anything else .
along this a man was , i remember , walking very rapidly .
he spoke in a calm and methodical manner , as though the events which he narrated were commonplace enough .
i was hoping that if mr douglas defended himself with the hammer , he might have left his mark upon the murderer before he dropped it on the mat .
it does not mention the fact that when the man was raised up , a woman 's wedding ring fell upon the floor .
why , it is surely obvious that
mr trevor stood slowly up , fixed his large blue eyes upon me with a strange wild stare , and then pitched forward , with his face among the nutshells which strewed the cloth , in a dead faint .
it took a man to get between you and the poor devils of men and women that you held under your grip .
her dress was brown , rather darker than coffee colour , with a little purple plush at the neck and sleeves .
you seem to have powers that are hardly human ,
this drunken hound , that he should dare to raise his hand to her , whose boots he was not worthy to lick !
seems to have smoked heavily during the night , too .
i suggested .
it is this page .
lord st .
from her bedroom we descended to the sitting room , where this strange tragedy had actually occurred .
out came the official notebook .
it has shaken me most dreadfully .
you want me to tell the story .
he held up a little crumpled piece of paper .
i left holmes seated in front of the smouldering fire , and long into the watches of the night i heard the low , melancholy wailings of his violin , and knew that he was still pondering over the strange problem which he had set himself to unravel .
he was running , watson running desperately , running for his life , running until he burst his heart and fell dead upon his face .
he investigated the case with great care , for dr roylott 's conduct had long been notorious in the county , but he was unable to find any satisfactory cause of death .
i have had diabetes for years .
if he is an elderly man he is not this active cyclist who sprints away from that young lady 's athletic pursuit .
if you want me , you 'll find me at jacob shafter 's on sheridan street , vermissa so i 'm not hiding from you , am i ?
as we drove back i asked for the details .
as to the letters ,
its power was used for political purposes , principally for the terrorising of the negro voters and the murdering and driving from the country of those who were opposed to its views .
what has become of lucy ferrier ?
it rose and fell with the wind .
i saw the flash of the blade quite distinctly .
your friend mr sherlock holmes is a wonderful man , sir ,
you have indeed much to answer for .
towards this garden the window of the sitting room fronted , and from it , according to mortimer tregennis , must have come that thing of evil which had by sheer horror in a single instant blasted their minds .
i was feeling drowsy and stupid , partly from my dinner and also from the effects of a long day 's work .
a few trifling points might perhaps be added .
i may tell you that , besides mr rucastle , both toller and his wife find something to do in these deserted rooms , and i once saw him carrying a large black linen bag with him through the door .
i 'm damned if i tell you that !
it it 's not actionable ,
you can even see his hearth and his couch if you have the curiosity to go inside .
the presence of the gipsies , and the use of the word ' band , ' which was used by the poor girl , no doubt , to explain the appearance which she had caught a hurried glimpse of by the light of her match , were sufficient to put me upon an entirely wrong scent .
since you ask me , however , i may say that it has occurred to me as possible that the excitement of this affair , the consciousness that she had made so immense a social stride , had the effect of causing some little nervous disturbance in my wife .
he started me off upon the letter a , and then he left me but he would drop in from time to time to see that all was right with me .
how did you word your inquiries ?
anyone but a blind man could do as much ,
it pulled up at our door , and our friend , the vicar , sprang from it and rushed up our garden path .
then i came into town , joined mr gregson , and here we are .
i did not take long to think about it , watson .
well , i really can wait no longer .
and yet she had a certificate of death .
fortune was very good to us at first .
i cried .
we must kill him .
excellent !
what then ?
on our way back we stayed for lunch at merripit house , and it was there that sir henry made the acquaintance of miss stapleton .
still , of course , if you would like to draw out of the business , there is plenty of time to do so .
do you observe anything noteworthy about them ?
at last we are on the dear boy 's track !
no , she 's your widow .
at the same time , the gate of the garden is a hundred yards from the main london to chatham road .
then sherlock looked across at his brother .
early eighteenth century , unless it is a forgery .
i may add that she was a woman of great beauty , and that even now , when she has been married for upwards of thirty years , she is still of a striking and queenly appearance .
we were only doing our duty in taking this chance of putting him back where he could do no harm .
no gossiping !
it was only this moment at breakfast that i was saying to my friend , dr watson , that sensational cases had disappeared out of our papers .
i hope ,
what are you going to do yourself ?
agents were suspected or even caught , but there was evidence of some strong and secret central force .
at the same time you must admit that the occasion of a lady 's marriage is a very suitable time for her friends and relatives to make some little effort upon her behalf .
i replied , after a little thought .
cried the inspector ,
i can give you , gentlemen , five minutes for preparation , and that is all .
how could i meet this friend of yours ?
it is an interesting case , too , at the bottom of it .
it contained a loaf of bread , a tinned tongue , and two tins of preserved peaches .
all other men are specialists , but his specialism is omniscience .
we have been allies too long to quarrel now at the very hour of victory ,
it was on the extreme fringe of the town and stood well back from the road .
you have worked with it , and the muscles are more developed .
there i squatted down and awaited developments .
he must disclose all , or he is a traitor to his service .
fresh editions of every paper had been sent up by our news agent , only to be glanced over and tossed down into a corner .
you surprise me !
it was with a sinking heart that i reentered holmes 's bedroom .
holmes !
what would they do to assist them ?
no , that was not the point .
all day he would wander about as black as thunder , and he took to drinking a deal more than was good for him .
precisely .
when horner had been arrested , it seemed to me that it would be best for me to get away with the stone at once , for i did not know at what moment the police might not take it into their heads to search me and my room .
i beg that you will sit down and tell me what you desire , but i fear that i cannot make any unconditional promise .
oh , yes , all of them had been shown over it .
i was not surprised , therefore , when this morning he left his untouched meal behind him , and started with me for norwood .
come on !
pray , what did you do then ?
sometimes it is a pulling jockey .
i had little doubt that i had come to the end of my career when i perceived the somewhat sinister figure of the late professor moriarty standing upon the narrow pathway which led to safety .
you would oblige me by bringing with you your very excellent field glass .
well , charles milverton , what have you to say ?
after struggling against it until two in the morning , i felt that it was quite hopeless , so i rose and lit the candle with the intention of continuing a novel which i was reading .
it was very essential that i should impress mrs hudson with the reality of my condition , since she was to convey it to you , and you in turn to him .
hold up , man , or you 'll be into the fire !
an attempt was made in paris and failed .
it appeared from its position in the paper to have been the one event of importance in town , and the account of it ran in this way :
you could not make a greater mistake .
why so , mrs hudson ?
sometime when you have a year or two to spare i commend to you the study of professor moriarty .
the jewels will be as well with us as in the company 's coffers .
i came over at once .
on the other hand , although it is trivial , it is undoubtedly queer , and i know that you have a taste for all that is out of the common .
it was , as dr watson told us , a form of knife which is used for the most delicate operations known in surgery .
come , gentlemen , and i will introduce you .
i thought of my uncle and of his colleagues in the cabinet , of the shame which i had brought upon him , upon myself , upon every one connected with me .
i cannot imagine .
at last the violet rim of the german ocean appeared over the green edge of the norfolk coast , and the driver pointed with his whip to two old brick and timber gables which projected from a grove of trees .
a threadbare and venerable device , but useful upon occasion .
poor sir charles was also an admirable companion .
the coroner : i am afraid that i must press it .
did you see him come out on us ?
besides , it is the season of forgiveness .
you remember my case ! said he proudly .
i anticipated it .
presently he stopped and picked out a square piece of board , such as is usually left to enable plumbers to get at the joints of the gas pipes .
exactly .
no , i think that may be dismissed .
you appear to have been very prompt and businesslike in all that you have done .
what was he to do next ?
and then ?
they live miles from any help .
we are given over into his hands !
she walked into the breakfast room .
but you have taken some pains to bore the head of it and pour melted lead into the hole so as to make it a formidable weapon .
that 's understandable .
it was massive , well made , and solid , like a chest constructed to carry things of great price , but not one shred or crumb of metal or jewelry lay within it .
i should have gone to the city that day , but i was too disturbed in my mind to be able to pay attention to business matters .
mcmurdo shrugged his shoulders .
and it may as well leave the room in my pocket .
he shook hands eagerly with sherlock holmes , and his dark eyes sparkled with pleasure when he understood that the specialist was anxious to hear his story .
the idea tickled gregson so much that he laughed until he choked .
there were only two men in the room , sir henry and stapleton .
a litter of pipes , tobacco pouches , syringes , penknives , revolver cartridges , and other debris was scattered over it .
oh , they are ignorant people .
seven to seven and six .
so the drunken squires cursed the shepherd and rode onward .
that brought murcher and two more to the spot .
it is quite on the cards that we may be afoot to night again .
it is only goodness which gives extras , and so i say again that we have much to hope from the flowers .
i can dispense then with artificial stimulants .
i do not know what to think .
it was pierced in the brim for a hat securer , but the elastic was missing .
when i have spun the web they may take the flies , but not before .
as i did so , and as the flicker steadied into a flame , we all gave a gasp of surprise .
no , mr holmes , i have not .
she whispered , with her cheek against his broad breast .
besides this , there were nearly three hundred very fine pearls , twelve of which were set in a gold coronet .
the other print has each toe distinctly divided .
the detection of types is one of the most elementary branches of knowledge to the special expert in crime , though i confess that once when i was very young i confused the leeds mercury with the western morning news .
mcmurdo 's deeds in far chicago had been whispered before .
he can keep , anyhow ,
my father was , as you may have guessed , major john sholto , once of the indian army .
the smell of hot metal remained to assure us that the light was still there , ready to flash out at a moment 's notice .
well , au revoir , von bork !
ah , he 's breathing now .
excellent !
any stuff i could make up .
surely you are mistaken about his trade ?
holmes wrote a name upon a slip of paper and handed it to the premier .
one day , only a couple of weeks ago , he came down to my cottage and i showed him some of my african curiosities .
i may have a laugh at them if i have nothing else .
his manner was as of one who has great work to do .
mr mccarthy was very anxious that there should be a marriage between us .
they advanced rapidly and noiselessly , with the confidence and dexterity of practised scouts .
how they murdered him i do not know , save that it was murillo 's hand who struck him down , for lopez had remained to guard me .
they had only just arrived , holmes , the prisoner , and he , for they had changed their plans so far as to report themselves at a station upon the way .
exactly .
but not more so than i to find you .
theories are all very well , but we have to deal with a hard headed british jury .
i felt that my hair was rising , that my eyes were protruding , that my mouth was opened , and my tongue like leather .
well , it is surely perfectly clear who took them away .
so it came to pass that one michaelmas this hugo , with five or six of his idle and wicked companions , stole down upon the farm and carried off the maiden , her father and brothers being from home , as he well knew .
it seems , however , that there must have been some short cut for those who knew it , for before i had reached the road i was astounded to see miss stapleton sitting upon a rock by the side of the track .
i showed him that if he did so , his life was in my hands .
it is her carriage .
if you insist upon it .
only sir james walter and you had those keys ?
and it was she , i presume , who mentioned your name ?
a face was looking in at us out of the darkness .
i had relied upon him to look after this .
what , the man who draws them ?
lucky we came back !
when in india , he and i , through a remarkable chain of circumstances , came into possession of a considerable treasure .
could you scale that wall , doctor ?
when i look at the three massive manuscript volumes which contain our work for the year , i confess that it is very difficult for me , out of such a wealth of material , to select the cases which are most interesting in themselves , and at the same time most conducive to a display of those peculiar powers for which my friend was famous .
written in pencil upon the fly leaf of a book , octavo size , no water mark .
could we see her , then and try to use her ?
you 're crazy !
i assure you that your little problem promises to be the most interesting which has come my way for some months .
many startling successes and a few unavoidable failures were the outcome of this long period of continuous work .
i have no fear on that head .
my unhappy brother is starving on the moor .
he might have leaped back .
on the second floor ?
as he spoke , we turned down a narrow lane and passed through a small side door , which opened into a wing of the great hospital .
it missed him , then ?
if you think it really necessary , ' he answered , with some hesitation .
the ring business and the card point to premeditated murder for some private reason .
with the exception of mr frankland , of lafter hall , and mr stapleton , the naturalist , there are no other men of education within many miles .
very stealthily we heard it pass along until it died away in the distance .
yours in freedom ,
a girl of fourteen , patience moran , who is the daughter of the lodge keeper of the boscombe valley estate , was in one of the woods picking flowers .
ah , thereby hangs a rather painful tale .
it is straight enough .
i wish you both to be there as witnesses .
they may hesitate as to an acceptable wedding present .
i had never known him handle a case in such a half hearted fashion .
it ran ,
we will suppose , for argument 's sake , that the household of wisteria lodge are confederates in some design .
you crossed my path on the th of january ,
the duke had dropped the last attempt at self command , and was pacing the room with a convulsed face and with his clenched hands raving in the air .
i had a vague memory that as i have travelled by it i have occasionally seen windows just above my head .
above , the stars were shining brightly , and below , the lights of the shipping glimmered in the bay .
i told the hounds what i thought of them .
has he been moved ?
this must be the gossip of idle tongues .
how you startled me , kate !
but how do you know ?
lord singleford 's rasper .
stangerson had drebber 's purse in his pocket , but it seems that this was usual , as he did all the paying .
he cried , with a gleam of suspicion in his eyes ,
we found him , when we went to search for him , face downward in a little green scummed pool , which lay at the foot of the garden .
it is just as well that we should do business with the male relatives .
just so .
i may even say exceptional features of interest .
i trust that i shall soon have to congratulate you upon a successful conclusion .
he came down and admitted me through the window of the sitting room .
i had no difficulty in getting leave to come into winchester this morning , but i must be back before three o'clock , for mr and mrs rucastle are going on a visit , and will be away all the evening , so that i must look after the child .
this , there could be no question , was the same that had contained the ill omened treasure of the sholtos .
as to the knife , it might well be thrown far from the unfortunate man as he fell .
i know that he has done no harm and that you will be sorry for having acted so harshly .
i know that some great sorrow would come upon us if i dared to say what i really felt .
lucy and her father would fain have rested longer , but jefferson hope was inexorable .
then west , if he is the culprit , must have had a duplicate .
i trust that the man porlock will come to no harm .
but i am somewhat headstrong by nature , and the more ready to engage in an affair when there is some obstacle in the way .
yet i had my scruples about leaving holmes .
ah , my dear watson ,
that brought him in here .
he is incapable of it .
hullo !
then a look of amazement came over his face .
to begin at the beginning .
the local surgeon , an old , white haired man , had just come down from mrs hilton cubitt 's room , and he reported that her injuries were serious , but not necessarily fatal .
well , sir henry , your uncle had a letter that morning .
if a rod of six feet threw a shadow of nine , a tree of sixty four feet would throw one of ninety six , and the line of the one would of course be the line of the other .
if it were the devil himself a constable on duty should never thank god that he could not lay his hands upon him .
it does n't prove it was n't used .
observed holmes .
oh , dear !
it was not to make them rich that we did for achmet .
your family has lived with mine for over a hundred years under this roof , and here i find you deep in some dark plot against me .
about five ft .
i was standing in the yard when a ragged youngster asked if there was a cabby there called jefferson hope , and said that his cab was wanted by a gentleman at b , baker street .
i believe that no one abroad has seen it save the man who wrote it .
but what appeal could it be ?
there were three sisters altogether .
apart from the law he seems a kindly , good natured person , and i only mention him because you were particular that i should send some description of the people who surround us .
it was the envelope of this letter which gave us the dead man 's name and address .
that is the problem which we have to solve ,
is there anything to mark it as a police boat ?
has she perhaps met her end on the same night as the friend whom she had summoned ?
james windibank wished miss sutherland to be so bound to hosmer angel , and so uncertain as to his fate , that for ten years to come , at any rate , she would not listen to another man .
you are not familiar with cambridgeshire scenery , are you ?
let us begin by ruling that entirely out of our minds .
well , yes , of course the pay is good too good .
you are the last man that i should have expected to see out on the moor at this time of night .
the table was all laid , and just as i was about to ring mrs hudson entered with the tea and coffee .
the work is its own reward .
the professor 's corridor is also lined with cocoanut matting .
are the brethren satisfied ?
some little time ago he purchased from morse hudson two duplicate plaster casts of the famous head of napoleon by the french sculptor , devine .
then suddenly , just as by your own account he was telling them that there was danger , he broke short off .
now i am left to a lonely and dishonoured age .
not entirely ,
he speaks as a pupil to his master ,
it is obvious , therefore , that there were many people who had the strongest interest in preventing silver blaze from being there at the fall of the flag next tuesday .
that is well .
i should not , of course , have known him , but he bellowed out his name and the name of his launch .
i can follow each of your arguments .
well , i guess you gentlemen are only doing your clear duty after all , and i have no right to stand in the way of it .
where is gennaro ?
no , sir , white mason is a very live man , if i am any judge .
you do not mean bodies ?
when we answer that we have made some progress with our little problem .
the steps grew louder , and through the fog , as through a curtain , there stepped the man whom we were awaiting .
if you have read the letter you will know .
and i refuse it .
prove it to me !
you will n't be much older , either .
got him !
take him down , and keep him in the sitting room until i come .
by that time , of course , i knew for certain that it was the borgia pearl that we were after .
i persisted .
your own safety at stake .
for half an hour i waited with every nerve on the alert , but there came no other sound save the chiming clock and the rustle of the ivy on the wall .
there are no further particulars , and the whole case is in your hands now so far as it has been set forth in the public press .
one policeman was indeed after him already but the incident , as luck would have it , did the adventurer a great deal more good than harm .
i knew the lad well , and i loved him for his many excellent qualities .
who should it be but the pale faced , bearded man , who seemed himself in so nervous a state ?
what on earth can be the matter with him ?
then indeed you would have had him at your mercy !
i 'll go right now and fix it .
holmes had lit a cigarette and was shooting little darting glances all over the room .
a hundred and fifty guineas apiece .
there is always one about there but i can step across the road and telephone to make sure .
i then lounged down the street and found , as i expected , that there was a mews in a lane which runs down by one wall of the garden .
ah yes , we shall want something of the sort .
he cried .
you do n't say !
her features and figure were those of a woman of thirty , but her hair was shot with premature grey , and her expression was weary and haggard .
holmes cut the cord and removed the transverse bar .
see some light in the darkness , but it may possibly flicker out .
have you your papers ?
we came here on business ,
you see all these isolated facts , together with many minor ones , all pointed in the same direction .
colonel ross , who had shown some signs of impatience at my companion 's quiet and systematic method of work , glanced at his watch .
holmes continued his swift investigation of documents while his prisoner cursed and swore .
the papers next day were full of the brixton mystery , as they termed it .
i was about to make some reply in defence of my friend when he entered the room again .
there was no mark on any of them , as far as i know .
when he had written it , he said : ' all right , porter , i will take this myself .
and here is the very note .
you will find my sister in his room , for she has nursed him hand and foot this two months back .
for my education , holmes .
others , again , spoke of some early love affair , and of a fair haired girl who had pined away on the shores of the atlantic .
strand postmark , and dispatched ten thirty six ,
a quarter of an hour 's drive brought us to mrs cecil forrester 's .
the cab had driven up , and i left him .
i could hardly believe my own as i read the terms of the will but he explained that he was a bachelor with hardly any living relation , that he had known my parents in his youth , and that he had always heard of me as a very deserving young man , and was assured that his money would be in worthy hands .
an instant later the tutor returned , bringing with him the student .
yes , here .
it was only last week that three of our men were turned off by foreman blaker .
there is more in this than meets the eye .
but i 'll have them , watson , i 'll have them !
did you ?
this morning i had hardly started when the doctor in his carriage overtook me .
sherlock holmes looked deeply chagrined .
if you put it that mrs douglas and barker know the truth about the murder , and are conspiring to conceal it , then i can give you a whole souled answer .
it was close upon nine when he set out .
then , having established ourselves upon this sound basis , it is our duty to see what inferences may be drawn and what are the special points upon which the whole mystery turns .
for five days he toiled footsore and weary through the defiles which he had already traversed on horseback .
when the butler had left us sir henry turned to me .
you are scintillating this morning .
admirable !
his eyes were sharp and piercing , save during those intervals of torpor to which i have alluded and his thin , hawk like nose gave his whole expression an air of alertness and decision .
anything else ?
that was of great interest .
i saw the signal clear enough , and yet i could n't tell you why .
for heaven 's sake , holmes , think what you are doing ,
he 'd just broke in at the pantry window when william came on him and met his end in saving his master 's property .
oh , that was it ?
his companion remonstrated with him , and reminded him that they had resolved to stick together .
cried holmes , with decision .
the carboy has been cracked , you see , and the stuff has leaked out .
number one hundred and twenty seven is ' is ' ' there is ' holmes 's eyes were gleaming with excitement , and his thin , nervous fingers twitched as he counted the words ' danger .
she knew nothing of the papers , nor of mr oldacre 's private affairs .
yes , sir yes .
how did your mother take the matter ?
i did not kill him , said i .
the extract from my private diary which forms the last chapter has brought my narrative up to the eighteenth of october , a time when these strange events began to move swiftly towards their terrible conclusion .
but , you know , i have been trained as an actress myself .
but he begs you to help him .
they were all horrible to me .
i think not .
there is no particular reason for keeping a watch upon that book .
out i ran and through the shrubbery , but thank god there was no one there .
my dear holmes !
the bone was crushed , but there was no great external injury .
my heart is lightened already since i have confided my trouble to you .
i crawled about the lawn with an august sun on my back , but i got up at the end of an hour no wiser than before .
it was an old acquaintance , inspector morton , of scotland yard , dressed in unofficial tweeds .
fixing her with my eye in a way which i always found effective with women , i asked her at what hour her son returned .
they are mostly sent on by private inquiry agencies .
but neither the colonel nor the colonel 's wife could have taken it .
your request is a very reasonable one ,
come , now !
but the girl , holmes ?
he was a devil and a monster , and there can be no judge in the world who would punish my husband for having killed him .
only five have passed .
there is a strong family resemblance about misdeeds , and if you have all the details of a thousand at your finger ends , it is odd if you can n't unravel the thousand and first .
can we have the butler in for a moment ?
well , barrymore
they certainly were not .
he exclaimed at last .
here is a young man who learns suddenly that , if a certain older man dies , he will succeed to a fortune .
ah , the cowardly dogs !
two dark jagged peaks loomed above them through the darkness , and the defile which led between them was the eagle ca on in which the horses were awaiting them .
a low , stealthy sound came to my ears , not from the direction of baker street , but from the back of the very house in which we lay concealed .
and yet this john openshaw seems to me to be walking amid even greater perils than did the sholtos .
my first thought was that these fellows were in league with the rebels , and that this was the beginning of an assault .
as i turned away i saw holmes , with his back against a rock and his arms folded , gazing down at the rush of the waters .
will it pass ?
why should you cling so hard to that wretched life of yours , sergius ?
as i approached the window , which is covered with thick curtains , i suddenly felt the wind blow upon my face and realized that it was open .
there are two very good reasons why she should , under no circumstances , be his wife .
we 'll fix you yet !
a man in uniform advanced into the room , a six shooter in his hand .
i never will again .
of course , if they had been merely after plunder they would at least have made some attempt to search for it .
pray , lie down there and make yourself absolutely at home .
even as they passed , a great rock came thundering down with a hoarse rattle which woke the echoes in the silent gorges , and startled the weary horses into a gallop .
what do you think of pure reason and its fruit ?
here is his reply : ' the most dangerous crook in chicago .
it was an evil day for me when first i clapped eyes upon the merchant achmet and had to do with the agra treasure , which never brought anything but a curse yet upon the man who owned it .
that , or part of it , belonged rightfully to miss morstan .
and who is her maid ?
and these gentlemen
we examined the room also .
nothing you would like better ?
still more shaken was he next morning .
perhaps it was thoughtless of me to say so .
the whole train of thought did not occupy a second .
i beg you , mr holmes , to do what you can .
i see trouble before you , mr douglas .
i only wonder i did n't fall down and do a faint right there before the altar .
small had dropped his mask of stoicism , and all this came out in a wild whirl of words , while his eyes blazed , and the handcuffs clanked together with the impassioned movement of his hands .
holmes whistled , and we both followed along after it .
and yet , you must admit , that the three glasses are very remarkable , hopkins .
it was suggested , of course , by the story of the family hell hound , and by the desire to frighten old sir charles to death .
if this matter is not to become public , we must give ourselves certain powers and resolve ourselves into a small private court martial .
you remember , watson , that it was near there that we took archie stamford , the forger .
surely there is some discolouration here ,
but still it is not for me to stand between him and you .
i hardly understand your grace .
and an exceedingly interesting case it appears to be .
he pushed her to one side , and we followed closely after him .
there ai n't naught amiss with her rudder , ' said the foreman .
i could see a change in my uncle , however .
no one had heard a shot .
astronomy .
sherlock holmes sat silent for a few minutes with his fingertips still pressed together , his legs stretched out in front of him , and his gaze directed upward to the ceiling .
the new dance was in this form :
it was evident , however , that i could not do this if i were with you , since he would be keenly on his guard .
we do not know .
i have seen him do some remarkable things .
there is as much difference to my eyes between the leaded bourgeois type of a times article and the slovenly print of an evening half penny paper as there could be between your negro and your esquimau .
it cannot much matter to him whether it is early or late for the orchids .
he continued ,
perhaps the villain was softened by the woman 's entreaties .
my friend had sat with his head upon his hands , sunk in the deepest thought .
holmes went to the bureau first and looked hard at the lock .
our guide 's answer was a singular one .
here it is :
mr alec , however , was a dangerous man to play games of that sort with .
nothing of the sort .
that was it ,
i am , as you have no doubt surmised , endeavouring to trace these busts to their source , in order to find if there is not something peculiar which may account for their remarkable fate .
i can read the first few lines and these in the middle of the second page , and one or two at the end .
could n't read or write ,
you know my methods .
i have no doubt they are , though i fail to see what their voices have to do with it .
this is our last chance .
in view of your health , nothing .
it was amusing to notice how the consequential jones was already beginning to give himself airs on the strength of the capture .
with high hopes we struck across the peaty , russet moor , intersected with a thousand sheep paths , until we came to the broad , light green belt which marked the morass between us and holdernesse .
absolute exhaustion possibly mere hunger and fatigue ,
his room was on the ground floor , and he could get out when he liked .
he is a man who might be attractive to a woman .
well , i 'm delighted to have got so good a man for my brother .
yes , i heard something of them .
i have been on the turf for twenty years , and never was asked such a question as that before ,
he shook hands with holmes and introduced his comrade as inspector baynes , of the surrey constabulary .
then i put out my hand and was about to shake the man , who was still sleeping soundly , when a bell over his head rang loudly , and he woke with a start .
i think it very unlikely .
one of these had obviously been closed for many weeks .
i looked back before i reached farnham , but the man was gone , so i thought no more about it .
he is an amateur of crime , as i am of disease .
i had no doubt that the gang of roughs who assaulted me had carried off both my hat and the bird .
and , now , gentlemen ,
he and the housekeeper , mrs bernstone , were both released yesterday evening .
then , having given him the idea that the coast was clear , i kept guard as i have described .
what the devil d'you mean by that ?
that 's just what i do mean to say .
i saw my wife and the maid hurrying back along the lane , but i did not stop to speak with them .
we have , i think , just time to catch our train at paddington , and i will go further into the matter upon our journey .
for a minute or more we all sat in silence .
how was the window ?
indeed , sir !
diverting the stream so i thought it best to explain matters beforehand .
no signs of violence were to be discovered upon sir charles 's person , and though the doctor 's evidence pointed to an almost incredible facial distortion so great that dr mortimer refused at first to believe that it was indeed his friend and patient who lay before him it was explained that that is a symptom which is not unusual in cases of dyspnoea and death from cardiac exhaustion .
i heard from major prendergast how you saved him in the tankerville club scandal .
i was keenly on my guard against him .
one or the other you must do before i quit this room .
how could he swear there was no such gun in the house ?
and how did he make his money ?
but who is he ?
it appears to be a fragment torn from a larger sheet .
he is a man who leads a sedentary life , goes out little , is out of training entirely , is middle aged , has grizzled hair which he has had cut within the last few days , and which he anoints with lime cream .
well , watson , we shall see who will win in the long run .
i kept my eye on her after that , for i knew there was some devilry in the wind .
one night it was in june , ' there came a ring to my bell , about the hour when a man gives his first yawn and glances at the clock .
at the end of an hour he was no further than when he started .
one or other would certainly get me .
we found the brass box there , although its contents had been destroyed .
well , really , this is a very pretty little mystery .
i have not shut an eye since the tragedy , thinking , thinking , thinking , night and day , what the true meaning of it can be .
its disappearance , however , was but momentary .
it 's only what i have read .
accurate , but unsystematic .
he is just telling me the news that came to him by way of business .
but the landlady had the pertinacity and also the cunning of her sex .
i tried all other four letters ending in e , but could find none to fit the case .
it is very good of you very noble of you .
the double track turned sharp off and took the direction of king 's pyland .
have you found out anything ?
he relapsed into a silent reverie , which lasted until the slow train drew up at last in woolwich station .
russian leather card case , with cards of enoch j .
i must wire to the king without delay .
john ferrier groaned internally .
it was a cool hand , whoever it was , to go and give the alarm like that .
i promise that before to morrow evening we shall have reached the solution of the mystery .
i need not tell you that he is not here under that name .
i quite recognize that i am under obligations to you , mr holmes ,
no one else ?
only a humble commoner , but his friend .
tis our new brother , sir , who finds our ways to his taste .
yes , i am doing so .
halloa !
the wind was howling outside , and the rain was beating and splashing against the windows .
they belong ,
i knew that my husband had come to england .
by all means take another cigarette .
indeed , it was almost mesmeric , the effect which this giggling ruffian had produced upon the unfortunate linguist , for he could not speak of him save with trembling hands and a blanched cheek .
together we stole down to the road and crept across to the door of the inn .
i wish you particularly to notice these footmarks ,
i have come to ask you about mr godfrey staunton .
if the gipsy 's evidence may be taken as true , he ran with cries for help in the direction where help was least likely to be .
but ' cooee ' is a distinctly australian cry , and one which is used between australians .
he never returned .
i walked down the narrow passage between the double row of sleepers , holding my breath to keep out the vile , stupefying fumes of the drug , and looking about for the manager .
the other hardly legible .
i should say that he has been dead about three hours , judging by the rigidity of the muscles ,
from amid a tuft of cotton grass which bore it up out of the slime some dark thing was projecting .
on the morning which followed his interview with the mormon prophet , john ferrier went in to salt lake city , and having found his acquaintance , who was bound for the nevada mountains , he entrusted him with his message to jefferson hope .
there was the rasping of bolts from the other side , and the amazed ames stood in the entrance .
we have had an immense display of energy since you left .
cried holmes ,
what was the starting point of this chain of events ?
we had carried the prostrate body to the sofa .
then he passed through the same door as before , and the light of the candle framed it in the darkness and shot one single yellow beam across the gloom of the corridor .
there is a spirituality about the face , however
what , be driven out of our own house by a practical joker ?
still , it might be worth while to call holmes ' attention to it .
a heavy step was heard upon the stairs , and an instant later there entered a tall , ruddy , clean shaven gentleman , whose clear eyes and florid cheeks told of a life led far from the fogs of baker street .
i remembered a german being found in new york with rache written up above him , and it was argued at the time in the newspapers that the secret societies must have done it .
can you tell me anything about him ?
here , too , is a curious little work upon the influence of a trade upon the form of the hand , with lithotypes of the hands of slaters , sailors , corkcutters , compositors , weavers , and diamond polishers .
with the connivance and assistance of his wife he disguised himself , covered those keen eyes with tinted glasses , masked the face with a moustache and a pair of bushy whiskers , sunk that clear voice into an insinuating whisper , and doubly secure on account of the girl 's short sight , he appears as mr hosmer angel , and keeps off other lovers by making love himself .
yours faithfully ,
you were not aware of any hurrying feet on the stair as you entered the outer door ?
he does little himself .
oh , the fellows evidently grabbed hold of everything they could get .
well , i am sure moran was at the bottom of it , but nothing could be proved .
i may call myself a patron of the arts .
he was quiet in his ways , and his habits were regular .
it was a very long street of two story brick houses , neat and prim , with whitened stone steps and little groups of aproned women gossiping at the doors .
he knows for certain that his page will exactly agree with my page .
i do n't suppose you could find a household more self contained or freer from outside influences .
with your permission , gentlemen , we will now return to our cottage , for i am not aware that any new factor is likely to come to our notice here .
it 's a common enough lash .
i saw his dark face lit up with a boyish enthusiasm as he gazed about him .
he rang the bell and asked barrymore whether he could account for our experience .
finally he lit his pipe , and sitting in the inglenook of the old village inn he talked slowly and at random about his case , rather as one who thinks aloud than as one who makes a considered statement .
he has twice lodged at tavistock in the summer .
not a word !
then the matter stands thus .
this is what began it all .
not in the least .
that would account for everything , would it not ?
in the light of the lantern i read , with a thrill of horror ,
i shall be happy to give you any information in my power .
exactly .
it gives me fresh life to know that something is being done .
undoubtedly .
i owe him nothing , and his friends are not mine .
i am afraid he will n't make much of why , by jove , here 's the very man himself !
holmes scribbled a receipt upon a sheet of his note book and handed it to him .
there i stayed for some time at a private hotel in the strand , leading a comfortless , meaningless existence , and spending such money as i had , considerably more freely than i ought .
where , indeed ?
he was a man of good family and of great ability , but of incurably vicious habits , who had by an ingenious system of fraud obtained huge sums of money from the leading london merchants .
this lodge has finished its business for the evening , save for one small matter which may be mentioned when we are parting .
what was my baggage or africa to me when i learned that such a fate had come upon my darling ?
oh , jack , if your conscience was at ease , you would not have looked at me like that !
the associate ?
he cried .
the two cunninghams were bending over the prostrate figure of sherlock holmes , the younger clutching his throat with both hands , while the elder seemed to be twisting one of his wrists .
i am pleased to think that i shall be able to free society from any further effects of his presence , though i fear that it is at a cost which will give pain to my friends , and especially , my dear watson , to you .
he moped after her departure from holdernesse hall , and it was for this reason that the duke desired to send him to my establishment .
she stared at him with an ashen face and gulped twice before she could speak .
i have found a re agent which is precipitated by hoemoglobin , and by nothing else .
a moment later we were out on the dark road , a chill wind blowing in our faces , and one yellow light twinkling in front of us through the gloom to guide us on our sombre errand .
when i came round the balcony he had reached the end of the farther corridor , and i could see from the glimmer of light through an open door that he had entered one of the rooms now , all these rooms are unfurnished and unoccupied so that his expedition became more mysterious than ever .
no one in the house .
it 's just as i imagined it ,
and this , of course , remains to you , since the marriage is a fait accompli ?
beware !
she curtseyed with a smile to mr holmes , but glanced with some apprehension at the figure upon the sofa .
that is definite enough .
yes , sir and you , no doubt , are mr sherlock holmes ?
that is a dangerous argument my dear watson .
look for such a pencil , mr soames , and you have got your man .
then you will n't forgive me ?
ah , that is another matter .
it 's all right , watson ,
it is easy for me to be so , for every event of that dreadful time is seared into my memory .
i put myself in the man 's place and , having first gauged his intelligence , i try to imagine how i should myself have proceeded under the same circumstances .
i had heard the click of the garden gate , and now the majestic figure of the great african explorer appeared upon the path .
here he comes .
when he is found the whole business will assuredly be put to his account .
with a motherly tenderness the gaunt woman put her arm round her mistress and led her from the room .
why was it bad ?
well , can you give me no further indications ?
well , at least ,
they obviously were the two who must have heard the sound of the gun so they gave the alarm exactly as they would have done , but a good half hour after the event .
it is known that mr jonas oldacre had received a late visitor in his bedroom upon that night , and the stick found has been identified as the property of this person , who is a young london solicitor named john hector mcfarlane , junior partner of graham and mcfarlane , of gresham buildings , e .
but the writing ?
it 's dead , whatever it is ,
he will have a better nerve for the ordeal which he will have to undergo tomorrow , when he is engaged , if i remember your report aright , to dine with these people .
if there is any mistake it is for mr barrymore himself to complain .
i could take a note back .
i only wish to point out that there are other theories possible .
but why did you say just now that there were very particular reasons why i should study this case ?
holmes sat down and listened .
shall we argue about it here in public or talk it over in your parlor ?
yes i rather think he is coming to consult me professionally .
with an area beneath , it was no mean feat to reach that window ledge and open that window .
patience , my friend , patience !
in two hours we must be on the scene of action .
it was our misfortune that our only child took after his people rather than mine .
for the time ,
i do not mean that any beggar in the streets of london could earn pounds a year which is less than my average takings but i had exceptional advantages in my power of making up , and also in a facility of repartee , which improved by practice and made me quite a recognised character in the city .
but this may all fit in with your theories ,
the unfortunate lady has not the money , and there are none of her people in whom she could confide .
then we heard of this steward , married to the third sister , and learned that he had at one time been so intimate with miss sarah that she had actually gone up to liverpool to be near the browners , but a quarrel had afterwards divided them .
sherlock holmes laughed .
and that was how a great scandal threatened to affect the kingdom of bohemia , and how the best plans of mr sherlock holmes were beaten by a woman 's wit .
do n't i ?
look in here !
von bork undid a winding of string and two wrappers of paper .
what ineffable twaddle !
scarcely had she got fairly into it , however , before the beasts closed in behind her , and she found herself completely imbedded in the moving stream of fierce eyed , long horned bullocks .
mr holmes is an independent investigator ,
the lady coloured deeply and covered over her injured wrist .
he was always a man of iron nerve , and the story is still told in india how he crawled down a drain after a wounded man eating tiger .
he had sent the hat to a mr drebber , residing at charpentier 's boarding establishment , torquay terrace .
the young hunter answered .
i have done it myself .
why should i preserve faith with him who never kept any with me ?
below , as i stood whistling for a cab , a man came on me through the fog .
we have their footmarks , we have their description , it 's ten to one that we trace them .
he had emigrated to america when he was a very young man .
and was that the last which you saw of him ?
he 's a fine place kick , it 's true , but then he has no judgment , and he can n't sprint for nuts .
a month ago , however , a dear friend , whom i have known for many years , has done me the honour to ask my hand in marriage .
mr sherlock holmes ?
i hear you had a talk with the patrolmen after i left the train .
but someone you must have , and that is final .
at eight in the morning .
ay , we 'll just ask ye when we want ye , ' said she , and shut the door in my face .
but it was not the sight of her body , nor yet was it that of the body of hugo baskerville lying near her , which raised the hair upon the heads of these three dare devil roysterers , but it was that , standing over hugo , and plucking at his throat , there stood a foul thing , a great , black beast , shaped like a hound , yet larger than any hound that ever mortal eye has rested upon .
among those gelatine cultivations some of the very worst offenders in the world are now doing time .
quite so .
indeed , doctor ,
why should i be surprised ?
now we must see if we can find this witness for you , lestrade .
i shall be back in a moment .
well , if you will n't tell us we can n't make you but i 'd be glad to know .
well , as he says , we must each try our own way and see what comes of it .
i had the telegram delivered to mr barrymore exactly as directed .
but in some way you have read our plans .
it was in vain that our guide assured him that a fall of stones was a common chance in the spring time at that spot .
so far as i can follow you , then , mr holmes ,
the candle in his hand shone upon his eager , stooping face , and told me at a glance that something was amiss
maybe you collect yourself , sir here 's british birds , and catullus , and the holy war a bargain , every one of them .
when he had descended he and his men escorted mcmurdo to headquarters .
he plunged instantly into his business .
what i have to offer is little enough when measured by your ability , but when compared with mawson 's , it 's light to dark .
my own inclinations are to push this inquiry on , for we have already lost so much time that we cannot afford to waste another hour .
there was an interview a short one during which you walked up and down the room .
how long is it since your wife asked you for a hundred pounds ?
it was taken , then , yesterday evening between seven thirty and eleven thirty , probably near the earlier hour , since whoever took it evidently knew that it was there and would naturally secure it as early as possible .
well , it was evening but i mind that the lamp was turned on my face .
we are but poor men that are trying in our own way to get our rights .
he began biting his nails and staring blankly out of the window , and we hardly drew another word from him until we were in new street .
certainly , sir ,
i 'll give you half an hour ,
watson , it was no brain of a country publican that thought out such a blind as that .
suddenly he looked at his watch .
it was a little , single roomed hut , sixteen feet by ten .
but you know him well , watson .
i was impatient and paced up and down the room .
as a man of the world , colonel , you know that men do not carry other people 's bills about in their pockets .
would you mind stepping in for a moment ?
in a very few hours the brown earth had become ruddy , the brick had changed to granite , and red cows grazed in well hedged fields where the lush grasses and more luxuriant vegetation spoke of a richer , if a damper , climate .
he was a lawyer .
the carpet seemed continuous and firmly nailed , so i dismissed the idea of a trap door .
i did not say a probable one .
the assembly met in a large room reserved for such purposes at the union house .
soon , however , it took a wider range .
i 'll put a pin in it .
i heard you quarrel , and i heard the blow .
now it burst upon our ears , nearer , louder , more urgent than before .
we had a faithful friend , however , who is a business man , and it was he who discovered some time ago that some of the securities which my father had with him had reappeared on the london market .
i never hear of such a case as this that i do not think of baxter 's words , and say , ' there , but for the grace of god , goes sherlock holmes .
nervous shock , he 's been on the verge all day .
now it becomes :
will you bet , then ?
here are his keys , which are the duplicates of mr rucastle 's .
if you are a judge of men , you 'll know that .
it 's my first big chance , and i am at my wit 's end .
some ten or twelve , but none which present any feature of interest .
where is the gentleman to whom you are engaged ?
what is that black thing down there ?
what can it be , then ?
the least appearance of opposition struck fire out of the old autocrat .
the matter grows in interest ,
i see no charm in the man .
not at all ,
he is a poorly educated man , small , active , with his right leg off , and wearing a wooden stump which is worn away upon the inner side .
the problem which we have just listened to , although it can admit of but one explanation , has still some distinguishing features .
mcmurdo shrugged his shoulders .
but how about the case ?
the daughter was of a good , amiable disposition , but affectionate and warm hearted in her ways , so that it was evident that with her fair personal advantages , and her little income , she would not be allowed to remain single long .
so i should have done had i not seen his death in the paper next morning .
catch !
a shock of orange hair , a pale face disfigured by a horrible scar , which , by its contraction , has turned up the outer edge of his upper lip , a bulldog chin , and a pair of very penetrating dark eyes , which present a singular contrast to the colour of his hair , all mark him out from amid the common crowd of mendicants and so , too , does his wit , for he is ever ready with a reply to any piece of chaff which may be thrown at him by the passers by .
perhaps , alice , you had better leave us together , ' she said , and her daughter withdrew .
george 's , was much addicted to opium .
well , well , he excites my curiosity , and i must really know before i leave him .
at first this vague and terrible power was exercised only upon the recalcitrants who , having embraced the mormon faith , wished afterwards to pervert or to abandon it .
no , it was all trodden into mire .
i resisted all pressure to stay for lunch , and i set off at once upon my return journey , taking the grass grown path by which we had come .
here is the stone the stone came from the goose , and the goose came from mr henry baker , the gentleman with the bad hat and all the other characteristics with which i have bored you .
in each case it is only about three inches .
it must always be in the same relative position to the ventilator and to the rope or so we may call it , since it was clearly never meant for a bell pull .
there 's no vice in him .
we are doing so ,
where are you going ?
as i stood in the passage gazing at the sinister door and wondering what secret it might veil , i suddenly heard the sound of steps within the room and saw a shadow pass backward and forward against the little slit of dim light which shone out from under the door .
he swears he knew nothing of this norwood business .
holmes looked even thinner and keener than of old , but there was a dead white tinge in his aquiline face which told me that his life recently had not been a healthy one .
she was a very respectable , well spoken young woman , sir , and i saw no harm in letting her have a peep .
i cudgelled my brains until i fell asleep in the endeavor to find some explanation which would cover all these facts .
we humoured him too much when he was a lad and gave him his own way in everything until he came to think that the world was made for his pleasure , and that he could do what he liked in it .
he cried ,
it is very essential , miss stoner ,
she cried .
as it was , we very nearly lost it at the last moment .
his disordered dress showed that he had been hastily aroused from sleep .
no : i feel as if he were gone for good , and we should never see him again .
he has a secretary who is devoted to his interests , and never budges from the study all day .
she cried .
and look at this !
they then play up to the idea by leaving this bicycle in the park as proof of the existence of some outsider .
how could i give it up when it would be to break my oath and to desert my comrades ?
his bicycle was kept in a small shed beside this lawn , and it also was gone .
are you all ready ?
i fear not but all i know is at your service .
you may rest assured that nothing will be neglected .
this other , however , prints ' match ' when it should have been ' matches .
when an actor i had , of course , learned all the secrets of making up , and had been famous in the green room for my skill .
what could i do ?
it was the ten minute signal before the cages descended and the day 's labour began .
i have a vivid recollection of that instant , of holmes ' triumphant expression and the ring of his voice , of the cabman 's dazed , savage face , as he glared at the glittering handcuffs , which had appeared as if by magic upon his wrists .
i think there can be no doubt of it .
i see them clearly .
and they are all in for this examination ?
a beautiful neighbourhood , and full of the most interesting associations .
in an instant the three of us had torn them away from him , and holmes staggered to his feet , very pale and evidently greatly exhausted .
i can n't imagine .
snapped the salesman .
it is of the first importance that we should be in our places before it grows dark so with your permission we shall get started at once .
well , if that is n't clear , what could be clear ?
cried mortimer tregennis .
if you can do nothing better than laugh at me , i can go elsewhere .
how 's that ?
i say ' criminal ' because only a man with a criminal enterprise desires to establish an alibi .
stanley hopkins gave a cry of joy .
it lay between that and her bedroom , and i was determined to see which .
i shall soon be in the position of being able to put into a single connected narrative one of the most singular and sensational crimes of modern times .
he is dead ,
on the fourth of may sir charles had declared his intention of starting next day for london , and had ordered barrymore to prepare his luggage .
if matters came to a crisis i should endeavour to be present in person but you can understand that , with my extensive consulting practice and with the constant appeals which reach me from many quarters , it is impossible for me to be absent from london for an indefinite time .
mr holmes !
if i am able to support myself it is largely due to the interest which he took in my unhappy situation .
it gives a fairly good account of the affair .
so alarming did the state of my finances become , that i soon realized that i must either leave the metropolis and rusticate somewhere in the country , or that i must make a complete alteration in my style of living .
but now there was nothing more to be done , and i had leisure to realize my position .
i could not speak before the constables , but i do n't mind saying , in the presence of dr watson , that this is the brightest thing that you have done yet , though it is a mystery to me how you did it .
then i could produce your confession at the last extremity to save young mccarthy .
he looked round him in surprise as he emerged into the clear , starlit night .
hopkins 's writing shows considerable agitation , and he is not an emotional man .
as he did so i caught a glimpse of his face in the mirror over the mantelpiece .
the same post brought me a letter from westhouse marbank , of fenchurch street , to say that the description tallied in every respect with that of their employ , james windibank .
holmes , however , was always in training , for he had inexhaustible stores of nervous energy upon which to draw .
if you come pestering me any more with your silly talk i 'll set the dog at you .
i implored the colonel to let me out , but the remorseless clanking of the levers drowned my cries .
it had been deserted when i left it , but now i saw a cyclist riding down it from the opposite direction to that in which i had come .
i was too terrified to raise my head .
the woman 's disappearance counts for nothing , since in that extraordinary household any member of it might be invisible for a week .
they were of great service to me , and especially that one incidentally truthful piece of biography of stapleton ' s .
seldom have i seen so graceful a figure , so womanly a presence , and so beautiful a face .
i then inquired as to the vessels which lay at present in the port of london .
i understand that they have had brokers in the house ?
how much time elapsed between your turning the corner and your discovery that the road was clear ?
this throws new light upon the matter .
you live in a different world to me , mr overton a sweeter and healthier one .
it 's early days to talk of such things ,
half confidences are worse than none .
there was a chair just under the lamp , and the elderly man motioned that i should sit in it .
and i 've closed the wood where the fernworthy folk used to picnic .
it has become known that we have never had occasion to unpack the money , and that it is still lying in our cellar .
thank you ,
this seemed to him so strange that he spoke about it to a sergeant of guides , who brought it to the ears of the commandant .
what can be done now ?
i do n't know , anyhow , that i should have cared to part with it but if i had wanted to i could n't .
when she saw that mark on the carpet , down she dropped on the floor , and lay as if she were dead .
but what , then , did the gipsies do ?
mr sandeford , of reading , i suppose ?
she did not wish us to read her expression .
you remember that fellow who came upon the evening before you left us ?
holmes refused to examine the third chamber , so we passed at once to the second , that in which miss stoner was now sleeping , and in which her sister had met with her fate .
it was a neat little thing , and i had stretched out my hand to examine it more closely , when
here , signed with her initials , is the very note which was no doubt quietly slipped into her hand at the door and which lured her within their reach .
there is a boatman here with a wherry , watson .
yes , sir
it 's bad enough to feel that you are surrounded by unseen , unknown folk , who have some kind of design upon you , but when , in addition to that , you know that it is just killing your wife by inches , then it becomes as much as flesh and blood can endure .
we had come out upon oxford street and i had ventured some remark as to this being a roundabout way to kensington , when my words were arrested by the extraordinary conduct of my companion .
there was not a line , however : so i came away , bitter and savage as a man could be .
mr holmes ,
at nine to morrow we 'll be with you .
you must leave it as it is .
as we ran towards it the vague outline hardened into a definite shape .
a stock exchange debt had to be paid .
the londoner nodded .
observation tells me that you have a little reddish mould adhering to your instep .
it must have been a private wrong , and not a political one , which called for such a methodical revenge .
as i watched them stapleton rose and left the room , while sir henry filled his glass again and leaned back in his chair , puffing at his cigar .
and have you made your will , sir henry ?
i 've told you all i know myself now , for the rest is mere surmise and conjecture .
never .
four days later holmes and i were again in the train , bound for winchester to see the race for the wessex cup .
if you are unable to come i shall give you fuller details , and would esteem it a great kindness if you would favour me with your opinion .
he was a hearty , full blooded fellow , full of spirits and energy , the very opposite to me in most respects , but we had some subjects in common , and it was a bond of union when i found that he was as friendless as i .
then they heard him open the outer door .
why , all the morning he was saying to me that , whatever happened , i was to be true and that even if something quite unforeseen occurred to separate us , i was always to remember that i was pledged to him , and that he would claim his pledge sooner or later .
he was an uncommon drunk sort o man ,
it was a warm june morning , and the latter day saints were as busy as the bees whose hive they have chosen for their emblem .
you should have been a surgeon .
the darkness was rising , but much was still hidden by the shadows .
i have a small pawnbroker 's business at coburg square , near the city .
you are mad to come here ,
the door itself was locked as well , and the key was not there .
there is our result and a very workmanlike little bit of analysis it was !
they are both lying , and in a conspiracy .
but supposing anyone applies , i have no ring .
but how on earth
i therefore went into the house with the intention of clearing up this point .
yet this emaciation seemed to be his natural habit , and due to no disease , for his eye was bright , his step brisk , and his bearing assured .
his great powers , his masterly manner , and the experience which i had had of his many extraordinary qualities , all made me diffident and backward in crossing him .
the only person in london whom he could have visited is major sholto .
well , moonshine is a brighter thing than fog ,
do you know who it was that we let into the house that day ?
was printed in rough characters the post mark charing cross , and the date of posting the preceding evening .
say , we 've had no such holy terror come to hand this many a year .
an evening alone !
in his case a trailer of ivy had given way under his weight , and we saw by the light of a lantern the mark on the lawn where his heels had come down .
it is of importance that it should not rain before we are able to go over the ground .
what i wanted above all was to get the missing part of that note .
all other things , our powers our desires , our food , are all really necessary for our existence in the first instance .
his face clouded over when i showed him the empty box .
he came for a visit of a week , and oh !
what a lovely thing a rose is !
halloa !
of course , it must have been the old metal and pebbles which my client had dragged from the mere .
come round here .
i sat down beside the fire , however , with the intention of awaiting him , however long he might be .
i must just take one look round .
now , in this case there was not the slightest doubt in my mind from the first that the key of the whole matter must be looked for in the scrap of paper in the dead man 's hand .
one day a gold convoy came down from ballarat to melbourne , and we lay in wait for it and attacked it .
all right , mate , no offense meant .
but it was destined to be resumed long before that hour , and in circumstances which gave me a shock hardly second to that caused by his spring to the door .
and your address had been given me .
now , you must have some wine and water , and sit here comfortably and tell us all about it .
was he a politician ?
the butler shall show you out .
you 've got to settle the thing right .
yes , yes , i see that .
cried the servant .
this is mr leverton , of pinkerton 's american agency .
moran , sebastian , colonel .
he was a very bustling and genial person , this sussex detective .
as he stood , he leaned upon his weapon for support , and yet his tall figure and the massive framework of his bones suggested a wiry and vigorous constitution .
oh , no , sir !
because it is the place of danger .
you have called me names enough , i will not stand it any longer .
still holding my hand in one of his , he opened a door , and i was vaguely conscious that we had entered a large room in which a cigar had been smoked not long before .
say nothing of the hound to sir henry .
we picked up the scent at charing cross post office and came on here .
i shall go down with hill to the italian quarter , find the man whose photograph we have got , and arrest him on the charge of murder .
it will go no further than me though i warn you that you may get neither help nor sympathy .
he was a late riser , as a rule , and as the clock on the mantelpiece showed me that it was only a quarter past seven , i blinked up at him in some surprise , and perhaps just a little resentment , for i was myself regular in my habits .
quite so .
slowly the twilight crept down as the sun sank behind the high towers of holdernesse hall .
the man 's name is henry wood , and he lives in lodgings in this same street in which the ladies met him .
there 's a place , however , on the wooden fence which skirts the road which shows signs , they tell me , as if some one had got over , and had snapped the top of the rail in doing so .
you can think that i looked out when i came to charlington heath , and there , sure enough , was the man , exactly as he had been the two weeks before .
i know that miss stoner has been here .
no , sir , this is mr johnson , the coal owner , a very active gentleman , not older than yourself .
no , sir , it is gone forever .
because no brother may tell another a lie .
half past seven .
gorgiano had his private reasons for vengeance , but in any case we knew how ruthless , cunning , and untiring he could be .
it must be recovered .
i fear that i have brought some traces of the storm and rain into your snug chamber .
what was the fair lady 's game ?
they were grouped round the bier in the early hours of the morning , when , to their inexpressible fear and astonishment , the door was flung open , and a savage looking , weather beaten man in tattered garments strode into the room .
there 's a flaw there .
lady brackenstall thinks that they were themselves so disturbed by the death of sir eustace that they did not ransack the house , as they would otherwise have done .
well , come along and put friend soames out of his pain .
she cried .
positive !
this is indian work , i suppose ?
he could hardly stand still so great was his mental agitation , and he ran towards holmes with two eager hands outstretched .
but surely , mr wilder
but his wife you said that she had ceased to love him .
no , his friend .
i had a row over you with mawson 's manager .
never mind .
fly for your life .
in short , watson , it is a very common book .
thank you !
none but very heavy rain .
why , i do n't see that we have any clue at all .
scanlan and mcmurdo made their way back scanlan somewhat subdued , for it was the first murder job that he had seen with his own eyes , and it appeared less funny than he had been led to believe .
quite so .
i was blue ribbon at that time , and we were putting a little money by , and all was as bright as a new dollar .
precisely .
all we have to do is to carry it out for them , same as they would for us .
perhaps you would prefer that joseph came with us so as to look after me ?
there 's an east wind coming , watson .
i sponged the wound , cleaned it , dressed it , and finally covered it over with cotton wadding and carbolised bandages .
he had an almost hypnotic power of soothing when he wished .
do you not think , then , that he might have been trying to straighten it ?
in silence baynes led the way to the sink and held forward his candle .
my strength had been rather tried of late .
on wednesday it was still unfinished , so i hammered away until friday that is , yesterday .
we must send for help , holmes !
cried the woman in a pleading voice .
i do so want a little help .
thank you you can put the glass beside me here , and i 'll put my lips to it if i am dry .
james 's hall i felt that an evil time might be coming upon those whom he had set himself to hunt down .
she was frightened by the earnestness of his manner , and ran past him to the window through which she was accustomed to hand the meals .
you have heard me remark that the strangest and most unique things are very often connected not with the larger but with the smaller crimes , and occasionally , indeed , where there is room for doubt whether any positive crime has been committed .
halloa !
but i shall be very much surprised if it is not clear enough before we go to bed this night .
i know so much already that if you go one inch off the straight , i 'll blow this police whistle from my window and the affair goes out of my hands forever .
three days later we were back in baker street together but it was evident that my friend would be much the better for a change , and the thought of a week of spring time in the country was full of attractions to me also .
it is so very kind of you both but indeed i do not know what i should do .
it is a nice household ,
in the cab was a woman , half collapsed from nervous exhaustion .
here it is , and with your permission i will read it to you .
my wife had already gone upstairs , and the sound of the locking of the hall door some time before told me that the servants had also retired .
he cried .
quick , madam , bring it here !
that of murdering their coachman , william kirwan .
it was a shock to me to hear that i had placed my friends in such horrible peril .
such are the adventures of last night , and you must acknowledge , my dear holmes , that i have done you very well in the matter of a report .
aveling , the mathematical master , was sure upon the point .
she rummaged in a bureau , and presently she produced a photograph of a woman , shamefully defaced and mutilated with a knife .
to do this was quite beyond my power , and i could only hope that by economy i might in ten years ' time save enough to enable me to put up my plate .
but the curtain screened it , as you can see , and so it never occurred to me .
he frightened me into remaining silent .
that must have been difficult , holmes , when the elm was no longer there .
with the result of driving it through the ventilator .
holmes leaned forward and whispered something in the trainer 's ear .
but he went out every evening .
briarbrae proved to be a large detached house standing in extensive grounds within a few minutes ' walk of the station .
i have no doubt that she loved you , but there are women in whom the love of a lover extinguishes all other loves , and i think that she must have been one .
wire me what train in the morning you can get for birlstone , and i will meet it or have it met if i am too occupied .
could it have been an official superior who took the papers ?
her breath came quick and fast , and every inch of the lithe figure was quivering with strong emotion .
did you ever mention to any one that it was your intention to give any one the treaty to be copied ?
i shall be delighted if you will stay .
a dozen yards or so .
pon my word , it is a great thing for me to have someone to talk to , for my own thoughts are not over pleasant .
there 's no room for a mistake ,
it is only a few miles away , and we imagined that , in some sudden attack of homesickness , he had gone back to his father , but nothing had been heard of him .
so swiftly was the examination made , that one would hardly have guessed the minuteness with which it was conducted .
he slapped the german upon the shoulder with a rough familiarity from which the other winced .
it has been a most remarkable experience .
oh , it is so dreadfully still in there !
he was a very retiring man , and he preferred to do good by stealth .
he does n't look a credit to the bow street cells , does he ?
who who 's this ?
in spite of the attempts of the friends to hush the matter up , so much public attention has now been drawn to it that no good purpose can be served by affecting to disregard what is a common subject for conversation .
there are many problems of disease , many strange pathological possibilities , in the east , watson .
take your pistol , and we will enter dr roylott 's room .
sophy !
but , i say , are n't we wasting precious time ?
what then could have been in this letter to cause so dreadful a result ?
then he turned down the lamp , and we were left in darkness .
well , if he has done no wrong we shall see that no wrong comes to him .
there it is , where the lady is walking .
it was a lovely trip , the dainty green of the spring below , the virgin white of the winter above but it was clear to me that never for one instant did holmes forget the shadow which lay across him .
he had not followed me himself , but he had set an agent the boy , perhaps upon my track , and this was his report .
and yet the course of true love does not run quite as smoothly as one would under the circumstances expect .
i must request you to walk on tiptoe and not to talk above a whisper .
the huge body , the craggy and deeply seamed face with the fierce eyes and hawk like nose , the grizzled hair which nearly brushed our cottage ceiling , the beard golden at the fringes and white near the lips , save for the nicotine stain from his perpetual cigar all these were as well known in london as in africa , and could only be associated with the tremendous personality of dr leon sterndale , the great lion hunter and explorer .
holmes had stepped across , had lit the candle , and was passing it backward and forward across the window panes .
so it was , sir and now it 's an old black one .
in an instant the two sikhs were upon me .
to the police ?
holmes rushed to the top of the stairs to draw in the fresh air , and then , dashing into the room , he threw up the window and hurled the brazen tripod out into the garden .
well , i do n't know about californians .
but never anyone so cryin ' drunk as that cove .
it is terror .
i am birdy edwards of pinkerton 's .
it was some distance off , where a winding passage leads to a great empty hall , the brick walls of which were all crumbling to pieces .
he stared at us and at the dog cart .
the amazing strength , the skill in the use of the harpoon , the rum and water , the sealskin tobacco pouch with the coarse tobacco all these pointed to a seaman , and one who had been a whaler .
and your address ?
he appeared to be a man of considerable wealth , and was reputed to be a bachelor .
and yet one would have expected some bleeding .
what is the meaning of this intrusion ?
mr thaddeus sholto ceased , and sat twitching on his luxurious settee .
inspector macdonald had sent up a note to the effect that he would wait upon mrs douglas in her room but she had replied that she would meet us in the dining room .
it may have been a couple of minutes .
i had listened with the greatest interest to the statement which holmes , with characteristic clearness , had laid before me .
even boss mcginty was ignorant as to many things for there was an official named the county delegate , living at hobson 's patch farther down the line , who had power over several different lodges which he wielded in a sudden and arbitrary way .
then i took my watch from under the pillow .
by gar !
i have not seen a paper for some days .
yes , he did .
the floor was covered thickly with the prints of a naked foot , clear , well defined , perfectly formed , but scarce half the size of those of an ordinary man .
a rat could not conceal himself either in the room or the corridor .
can you tell me his exact height ?
i 've often wondered what it could be .
i will trouble you once again .
he is my husband , gennaro lucca .
excellent , watson !
sheep pens ?
these little darts , too , could only be shot in one way .
he loved me to come here , and was forever sending for me .
have you any change in your pocket ?
have you examined the box since tuesday morning ?
i clutched holmes 's arm , and pointed upward .
and now , watson , if you can endure the draught from a broken window , i think that half an hour in my study over a cigar may afford you some profitable amusement .
adventure i .
our chambers were always full of chemicals and of criminal relics which had a way of wandering into unlikely positions , and of turning up in the butter dish or in even less desirable places .
so there were quarrels , and this , i am sure , was one of them .
i had already considered that possibility .
it was amusing to me to see how the detective 's overbearing manner had changed suddenly to that of a child asking questions of its teacher .
he sat coiled in his armchair , his haggard and ascetic face hardly visible amid the blue swirl of his tobacco smoke , his black brows drawn down , his forehead contracted , his eyes vacant and far away .
well , about two in the morning i had sunk into a light sleep when i was suddenly aroused by a slight noise .
we hurried down the village street and found , as we had expected , that the inspector was just leaving his lodgings .
cried a querulous voice , and we looked up to find a queer little old man , jerking and twitching in the doorway .
old mr cunningham was at that window the second on the left and he saw the fellow get away just to the left of that bush .
i come here to see a gentleman , and you two , who i never saw in my life , seize me and treat me in this fashion !
holmes had followed him closely , and as the man turned with a cry of surprise and alarm he caught him by the collar and threw him back into the room .
he was brought up and remanded for further inquiries .
meyers , toronto ,
it was difficult to refuse any of sherlock holmes ' requests , for they were always so exceedingly definite , and put forward with such a quiet air of mastery .
what a fool i was not to know it .
there was neither superscription nor signature .
mr gregson and i ran him to ground in that big tenement house , and there 's only one door , so he can n't slip us .
and there is the aurora ,
you have no cause for uneasiness .
my pence were duly paid , and the rest is familiar to you .
and also ,
i cried holmes !
he is irregular in his methods , and a little quick perhaps in jumping at theories , but , on the whole , i think he would have made a most promising officer , and i do n't care who knows it .
well , that is the curious part of it .
it is rutted with wheels and trodden down by the feet of many adventurers .
well , well , i can do nothing more .
my dear doctor , this is a time for observation , not for talk .
that is why i have come .
sherlock holmes gave a sigh of relief , and relaxed into a smile .
you 'll do .
in shape and size it was not unlike a cigarette case .
it is really very good of you to come , watson ,
the man was so dazed that he could not be made to understand that we were anything but doctors who had been sent to his assistance .
nothing was to be seen save that some body or bundle had been dragged through a low privet hedge which is in a line with the wood pile .
i am going to smoke and to think over this queer business to which my fair client has introduced us .
what , in heaven 's name , was it ?
in this bag i have one of the boots which straker wore , one of fitzroy simpson 's shoes , and a cast horseshoe of silver blaze .
he little thought of this when he made that random shot .
but now you have heard it , and you will see that if there was a plot it was not against you .
call for me here at noon to morrow , and we 'll go together and settle everything ,
the probability lies in that direction .
my name is helen stoner , and i am living with my stepfather , who is the last survivor of one of the oldest saxon families in england , the roylotts of stoke moran , on the western border of surrey .
where were you made ?
you have two sisters , i believe .
i might take him right out into the country , and there in some deserted lane have my last interview with him .
it 's just as well for two fellows to know the worst of one another before they begin to live together .
we talked little , and i for one was glad when the meal was over and we were able to retire into the modern billiard room and smoke a cigarette .
dear me !
so spoke sherlock holmes and turned back to the great scrapbook in which he was arranging and indexing some of his recent material .
several discs of metal , old coins apparently , such as i hold here , were scattered over the bottom of the box , but it contained nothing else .
we got to the church first , and when the four wheeler drove up we waited for him to step out , but he never did , and when the cabman got down from the box and looked there was no one there !
i should become the laughing stock of scotland yard .
holmes sat in a great , old fashioned chair , his inexorable eyes gleaming out of his haggard face .
incidentally , i may tell you that we are doing the reverse of what you very justly blame , and that we are endeavouring to prevent anything like public exposure of private matters which must necessarily follow when once the case is fairly in the hands of the official police .
from this starting point i proceeded to step , having first taken the cardinal points by my pocket compass .
what then ?
then he wrote a long telegram upon a cable form .
but the lock ?
a mistake would have been fatal .
i had enough of both in afghanistan to last me for the remainder of my natural existence .
you must n't blame me .
the hand of the lord shall be heavy upon you ,
sherlock holmes 's prophecy was soon fulfilled , and in a dramatic fashion .
it was headed ,
i have no time for trifles ,
but you have told us nothing !
there have been further and sinister developments in the investigation at norwood .
i had misjudged you .
by the way , i suppose your friend was a healthy young fellow nothing amiss with him ?
i fancy that every one of his cases has found its way into your collection , and i must admit , watson , that you have some power of selection , which atones for much which i deplore in your narratives .
you will say i 've brought you something fresh .
in trouble ?
surely at the spot where it is attached to the wire .
you know that yourself .
you will n't gain anything by sitting keening like an old wife at a wake .
a draught in the room was necessary for that .
have you it there ?
the same reasons that bring you , i expect ,
when i came to i found that it was still bleeding , so i tied one end of my handkerchief very tightly round the wrist and braced it up with a twig .
but if you are found again , then all must come out .
and now , my poor watson , here we are , stranded and friendless in this inhospitable town , which we cannot leave without abandoning our case .
you have only to wash his face and his leg in spirits of wine , and you will find that he is the same old silver blaze as ever .
a very singular one .
your experience has been a most entertaining one ,
you made some small job in my lady 's room you and your confederate cusack and you managed that he should be the man sent for .
he raised his glass in his trembling hand and drank before he could answer .
that was in all the dailies .
when i see you , my dear watson , with a week 's accumulation of dust upon your hat , and when your wife allows you to go out in such a state , i shall fear that you also have been unfortunate enough to lose your wife 's affection .
your reverence need not be excited ,
assure him that if i have not asked his advice sooner it was not because i did not appreciate his talents , but because i have been off my head ever since the blow fell .
the proceedings against the page broke down for want of evidence , and the brook street mystery , as it was called , has never until now been fully dealt with in any public print .
only one of those whimsical little incidents which will happen when you have four million human beings all jostling each other within the space of a few square miles .
both miss stoner and i gazed at him in astonishment .
the old man , still clad in his surplice , burst into such a string of foul oaths as i have never heard , and pulled out a revolver of his own , but , before he could raise it , he was looking down the barrel of holmes 's weapon .
by god !
there is something to be said for the theory of suicide which you have put forward .
simon ,
so entranced was he that he stood staring without a word , and it was she who broke the silence .
i had thought that the whole matter was forgotten .
there had been a ring at the bell .
we had taken the precaution of leaving our boots behind us , but , even so , the old boards snapped and creaked beneath our tread .
then she threw her arms around him .
we sprang through into the dark passage , closing the area door behind us .
proceed , then .
he might have been the very spirit of that terrible place .
you know the lie of the land best .
why half , holmes ?
a general shout of anger greeted the suggestion .
i was still puzzling over it when i heard the door gently close again , and her footsteps coming up the stairs .
we cannot leave it here to the foxes and the ravens .
i have a natural shrinking from all forms of rough materialism .
but that fellow does puzzle me .
i still retain an almost verbatim report of the interview in which he demonstrated the true facts of the case to monsieur dubugue of the paris police , and fritz von waldbaum , the well known specialist of dantzig , both of whom had wasted their energies upon what proved to be side issues .
he sprang to his feet , his face turned livid with fear , and he thrust into his breast the chart like paper which he had been originally studying .
i laughed at this cross examination .
thus at the very moment that we thought that all was safe we were all four seized and brought to trial on a charge of murder , three of us because we had held the gate that night , and the fourth because he was known to have been in the company of the murdered man .
well , state your case , mr mac ,
you , my sons , will give her a fair share of the agra treasure .
mr mcmurdo , may i introduce you to mr baldwin ?
neligan was my father .
my dear watson , you evidently did not realize my meaning when i said that this man may be taken as being quite on the same intellectual plane as myself .
and where are you going ?
no complaint had been lodged with the police , so that beddoes had mistaken a threat for a deed .
the sahib awaits you ,
the bodymaster looked at them with an approving smile .
did you answer it yourself ?
at a wild torrent which swept out of a ravine they called a halt and watered their horses , while they partook of a hasty breakfast .
he rang the bell .
then you must excuse yourself and he must go alone .
my friend watson could tell you that i spent a whole morning in that exercise .
if , on the other hand , it is systematic , i have no doubt that we shall get to the bottom of it .
responded the whole party .
we did indeed get a fleeting view of a stretch of the thames with the lamps shining upon the broad , silent water but our cab dashed on , and was soon involved in a labyrinth of streets upon the other side .
there was no reason why those six should be different from any of the other casts .
it was my first visit to the scene of the crime a high , dingy , narrow chested house , prim , formal , and solid , like the century which gave it birth .
the man sprang from his chair and paced up and down the room in uncontrollable agitation .
what have you in the bundle ?
when these hot fits were over , however , he would rush tumultuously in at the door and lock and bar it behind him , like a man who can brazen it out no longer against the terror which lies at the roots of his soul .
who shot him , then ?
good god , it 's dreadful to think of !
the american struck his hands together with vexation .
i was not surprised .
why do you not solve it yourself , mycroft ?
you shave every morning , and in this season you shave by the sunlight but since your shaving is less and less complete as we get farther back on the left side , until it becomes positively slovenly as we get round the angle of the jaw , it is surely very clear that that side is less illuminated than the other .
he had remained on that three foot path , with sheer wall on one side and sheer drop on the other , until his enemy had overtaken him .
and why had he written a letter from himself to himself ?
i felt , as i looked upon that supple figure , alive with nervous energy , that it was indeed a strenuous day that awaited us .
the smoke and shouting were enough to shake nerves of steel .
well , mr gregson ,
it could not have fallen from above , for these , as you see , are all blank walls .
have you informed the sender ?
it was close upon four before the door opened , and a drunken looking groom , ill kempt and side whiskered , with an inflamed face and disreputable clothes , walked into the room .
that is rear admiral baskerville , who served under rodney in the west indies .
garcia rolled it up and threw it into the fire .
nothing of the sort , sir !
you may do what you like , doctor ,
half of it is yours and half is thaddeus sholto 's .
it 's a wicked world , and when a clever man turns his brains to crime it is the worst of all .
what news do you bring us this morning ?
he came back in a moment to say that barker was in the garden .
finding that their secret was out , and that their prisoner was not to be coerced , the two villains with the girl had fled away at a few hours ' notice from the furnished house which they had hired , having first , as they thought , taken vengeance both upon the man who had defied and the one who had betrayed them .
he was pacing the room swiftly , eagerly , with his head sunk upon his chest and his hands clasped behind him .
well , now , watson , let us judge the situation by this new information .
they fasten in an instant .
but he has a struggle to keep up his position .
and did you observe any change in her then ?
i loathe and fear him more than i can say .
in the light of a street lamp we read laburnum villa upon the gate post of one of them .
there had been a schism among the chosen people a few months before , some of the younger members of the church having rebelled against the authority of the elders , and the result had been the secession of a certain number of the malcontents , who had left utah and become gentiles .
but now , thanks to this lucky chance , i think that we have got them right enough .
the fund was , of course , for the propagation and spread of the red heads as well as for their maintenance .
it is simply to say that you transfer every possible right that you ever had in the bust to me .
for mr sherlock holmes ,
a jagged stone was lying among the moss , and this also he carefully examined and retained .
the king took a heavy chamois leather bag from under his cloak and laid it on the table .
so now , my good sir , i beg you to sit down and to tell me , slowly and quietly , exactly what it is that has occurred , and how you desire that i should help you .
lestrade was waiting for us at the door .
now let us see what page has in store for us .
i moved my head to look at the cabinet behind me .
come on !
i was ten miles or so from eyford , that was all i knew , but whether north , south , east , or west i had no idea .
i knew that they were watched .
ah , of course , i forgot that .
this is quite natural .
fresh evidence has shown that it is quite impossible that mr thaddeus sholto could have been in any way concerned in the matter .
i confess it .
his face assumed an expression of incredulity as he gazed , and he passed his boney hand over his eyes .
yes , sir , there is no other .
if you are going back to pitt street , you might see mr horace harker .
we are more likely to find them than clues to this problem .
but your house was recommended to me for board .
i would n't frighten kate poor little kate .
you have yours , and maybe i have mine .
in the dim light of the lamp i saw him sitting there , an old briar pipe between his lips , his eyes fixed vacantly upon the corner of the ceiling , the blue smoke curling up from him , silent , motionless , with the light shining upon his strong set aquiline features .
holmes was accessible upon the side of flattery , and also , to do him justice , upon the side of kindliness .
i stammered out some few halting words of congratulation , and then sat downcast , with my head drooped , deaf to the babble of our new acquaintance .
exactly .
you can easily imagine , mr holmes , how curious i became as to what the meaning of this extraordinary performance could possibly be .
he murmured .
i 'll do my best , anyhow .
if mr soames saw them , the game was up .
wonderful !
they are a well known house in the trade , and have been this twenty years .
i should certainly recommend you to return to your practice .
have you any suspicion yet as to the cause of the disappearance ?
i think that if we put something over his face he will be safe until morning .
therefore something had occurred between seven thirty and nine o'clock which had completely altered her feelings towards him .
is there any evidence that someone crept up to the garden window and in some manner produced so terrific an effect that he drove those who saw it out of their senses ?
twenty had changed to fifteen and fifteen to ten , but there was no news of the absentee .
no reports of any stranger seen ?
how could anyone offer so pitiful a sum to a lady with such attractions and accomplishments ?
a greater distance to travel .
among the many billets which i have filled in america during my wandering life , i was once janitor and sweeper out of the laboratory at york college .
cried the inspector .
this he opened and spread flat upon the table .
there is some rumor that he is or has been a clergyman , but one or two incidents of his short residence at the hall struck me as peculiarly unecclesiastical .
an almanac !
we are not out after you , but after this man mcmurdo .
there have been cases before now where trainers have made sure of great sums of money by laying against their own horses , through agents , and then preventing them from winning by fraud .
there is always romance .
he has had his little smile at our expense , and perhaps we may do as much by him , if my reading of this problem proves to be correct .
now , by the merest chance , his wife received a telegram upon this same monday , very shortly after his departure , to the effect that a small parcel of considerable value which she had been expecting was waiting for her at the offices of the aberdeen shipping company .
did you observe them closely ?
well , it cannot be far if barrymore had to carry out the food to it .
an important addition has been made during the last week to the list of the prizes which have been borne away by these charming invaders .
there are fifty who can reason synthetically for one who can reason analytically .
she seated herself on the side of the bed then she resumed .
ah , it is the cottage in the field !
they did n't go to the house .
once more , however , my friend was destined to be disappointed .
what 's that little thing of chopin 's she plays so magnificently : tra la la lira lira lay .
there was no difficulty about this .
and who the devil is he ?
there we found mr james wilder , demure and courtly , but with some trace of that wild terror of the night before still lurking in his furtive eyes and in his twitching features .
he is a friend of mine , and i 'll answer for his conduct ,
has anything escaped me ?
why , indeed ?
the inspector looked from one to the other of us in dazed astonishment .
but then , when the man commits burglary in order to break images which are not his own , that brings it away from the doctor and on to the policeman .
i feared that some disaster might occur , for i was very fond of the old man , and i knew that his heart was weak .
the old man is dead .
old as is the idea , however , there were one or two details which were new to me .
so i think also .
then he fell back dead .
i do n't know what it was that put it into my head to write upon the wall with it .
our official detectives may blunder in the matter of intelligence , but never in that of courage .
he came to the appointment , and found this fellow hayes with a led pony .
well , then , of course i saw it all , and i ran off as hard as my feet would carry me to this man breckinridge but he had sold the lot at once , and not one word would he tell me as to where they had gone .
indeed , if i may make a full confession to you , i was quite convinced that the letter from meiringen was a hoax , and i allowed you to depart on that errand under the persuasion that some development of this sort would follow .
a somewhat vague one .
you do n't seem to have a very high opinion of my honour ,
we had the corner of a pullman car to ourselves that evening as we whirled back to london , and i fancy that the journey was a short one to colonel ross as well as to myself , as we listened to our companion 's narrative of the events which had occurred at the dartmoor training stables upon the monday night , and the means by which he had unravelled them .
who are they ?
the football match does not come within my horizon at all .
i had expected to see sherlock holmes impatient under this rambling and inconsequential narrative , but , on the contrary , he had listened with the greatest concentration of attention .
it is the vilest murder trap on the whole riverside , and i fear that neville st .
you appeared to be surprised when i told you , on our first meeting , that you had come from afghanistan .
his high character , his profession , his antecedents would all forbid it .
i saw you together last night .
it is an art which is often useful ,
as he spoke , there came a swift pattering of naked feet upon the stairs , a clatter of high voices , and in rushed a dozen dirty and ragged little street arabs .
there seems to be danger .
exactly .
he was always so proud of the efficiency of his department , and this was a crushing blow .
it 's all up , morstan , ' he was saying , as they passed my hut .
i smiled on him , did my duty to his children , and bided my time .
i helped him out of it , while holmes knocked a blaze out of the logs in the grate .
surely i met you in plymouth at a garden party some little time ago , mrs straker ?
they had each been stabbed , it seems , and the hungarian police were of opinion that they had quarreled and had inflicted mortal injuries upon each other .
but surely this event could not have found its way into the plymouth morning papers .
i saw an ill dressed vagabond in the lane yesterday evening ,
i extremely dislike altering my habits , but the powers that be would take no denial .
at last i saw a vacancy at mawson williams 's , the great stock broking firm in lombard street .
it is past ten , however , and quite time that we started .
i 've never seen such injuries since the birlstone railway smash .
indeed , apart from the nature of the investigation which my friend had on hand , there was something in his masterly grasp of a situation , and his keen , incisive reasoning , which made it a pleasure to me to study his system of work , and to follow the quick , subtle methods by which he disentangled the most inextricable mysteries .
one is that after the second glass was filled the bottle was violently agitated , and so the third glass received the beeswing .
i really think , inspector martin , that our case is almost complete .
it may , of course , be a coincidence , but it is interesting .
i did not know how this agra treasure had weighed me down , until now that it was finally removed .
well , i suggested a blind .
well then ,
our ways lie elsewhere .
and then ' put the papers on the sundial .
yes there is a point which i wish to ascertain .
the old shikari 's nerves have not lost their steadiness , nor his eyes their keenness ,
yes , sir
holmes held up the paper so that the sunlight shone full upon it .
in the midst of this interview the maid rushed in to say that the master had come home , on which the wife , knowing that he would come straight down to the cottage , hurried the inmates out at the back door , into the grove of fir trees , probably , which was mentioned as standing near .
he guards himself against a wooden legged man , a white man , mark you , for he mistakes a white tradesman for him , and actually fires a pistol at him .
it was found near the bureau , and just to the left of it , as marked upon that chart .
he acted according to his lights ,
ah , yes , i shall keep the stone .
his suspicions being aroused , the sergeant followed the man , and with the aid of constable pollock succeeded , after a most desperate resistance , in arresting him .
come , friend watson , the curtain rings up for the last act .
this point seems absolutely certain .
and you mean to say that i could lie upon that bed and not be aware that a woman had entered my room ?
it was on a different panel of the door .
others were of a date during the reconstruction of the southern states , and were mostly concerned with politics , for he had evidently taken a strong part in opposing the carpet bag politicians who had been sent down from the north .
my case is complete .
cold harbor lane .
suddenly my companion 's voice broke in upon my thoughts .
i had my net drawn tightly round mr sholto , sir , when pop he went through a hole in the middle of it .
and you , sir ?
holmes shook his head mournfully .
i have a check for five hundred pounds which should be cashed early , for the drawer is quite capable of stopping it if he can .
see here !
there were no footmarks .
but the practical point which we now have to decide , sir henry , is whether it is or is not advisable for you to go to baskerville hall .
they take the place of the conventional dragon or wicked earl .
he walked swiftly round from one to the other , pausing only at the large one which looked from the hall onto the stable lane .
the actual official guardian of the papers is the famous government expert , sir james walter , whose decorations and sub titles fill two lines of a book of reference .
my heart grew light when i saw him drive away .
i remember the thrill in your voice .
it is the more strange , since we know that turner himself was averse to the idea .
but i have heard that the crocuses promise well ,
oh , indeed !
halloa , watson !
there was no possible escape .
mr harker , will you tell these gentlemen exactly what has occurred ?
i repeated it as i had told it before .
from portsmouth at midday ,
john ferrier bowed coldly .
now the richer fields of the north have absorbed the trade , and nothing save these ravaged groves and great scars in the earth show the work of the past .
now , the oldest sister would , of course , be miss cushing , and although her initial was ' s ' it might belong to one of the others as well .
to mr neville st .
mrs cecil forrester was out for the evening , she explained , and likely to be very late .
it was a stout oak cudgel .
i have had a blank day , watson .
then we gazed round us at the high , thin window of old stained glass , the oak panelling , the stags ' heads , the coats of arms upon the walls , all dim and sombre in the subdued light of the central lamp .
this is the print of a right foot in the dust .
he wheeled round upon his stool , with a steaming test tube in his hand , and a gleam of amusement in his deep set eyes .
where is your father 's place of business ?
mr jonas oldacre is a well known resident of that suburb , where he has carried on his business as a builder for many years .
we can hear that quick step of his pacing up and down , up and down , night , morning , and noon but except on that first night he had never once gone out of the house .
but the problem certainly presents some points of interest , and i shall be very pleased to look into it .
holmes traced his way to the farther side of this and lay down once more upon his face with a little cry of satisfaction .
i married , too , and though my wife died young she left me my dear little alice .
i had called upon my friend , mr sherlock holmes , one day in the autumn of last year and found him in deep conversation with a very stout , florid faced , elderly gentleman with fiery red hair .
my motive for withholding it from the coroner 's inquiry is that a man of science shrinks from placing himself in the public position of seeming to indorse a popular superstition .
yes , i have no doubt that we shall be able to do something for you .
if you had wished to throw the treasure into the thames it would have been easier for you to have thrown box and all .
what is it ?
you know my name ?
do n't you think , watson , that you are away from your charge rather long ?
it is possible that stapleton did not know of the existence of an heir in canada .
you will do nothing of the sort .
but she was married to mr browner a few days afterwards .
l'homme c'est rien l'oeuvre c'est tout , ' as gustave flaubert wrote to george sand .
see now ,
come , speak up !
i am a practical man ,
seven to five !
i woke him up and told him that the hour had come when he was to answer for the life he had taken so long before .
here you are ,
he was n't a tall , handsome , dark young man ?
an idea an indication , no more .
pierrot .
having an english job to do , they took into partnership , as any foreign criminal could do , this great consultant in crime .
holmes stretched out his hand at the same moment , and between them they tipped the box over the edge .
cried mcginty with a laugh ,
this catastrophe i am inclined to regard as an unhappy accident , for i am convinced that the lady had no intention of inflicting so grievous an injury .
i fear that we have .
sir henry rubbed his hands with pleasure , and it was evident that he hailed the adventure as a relief to his somewhat quiet life upon the moor .
we know that well .
if we are to go to norwood it would perhaps be as well to start at once ,
before going into this , i would draw your attention to the fact that , if alec cunningham 's narrative was correct , and if the assailant , after shooting william kirwan , had instantly fled , then it obviously could not be he who tore the paper from the dead man 's hand .
he has the horse , then ?
if he has any expectations it is due to the fact that i have never wasted money , and i do not propose to begin to do so now .
he has given his consent , provided we get these mines working all right .
i was annoyed at this criticism of a work which had been specially designed to please him .
a great brain and a huge organization have been turned to the extinction of one man .
a moment later the tall and portly form of mycroft holmes was ushered into the room .
you have always kept together , i presume ?
ah yes , they keep a permanent guard there on account of the value of the securities that they hold .
that brother mcmurdo should wait until it is the good pleasure of the lodge to employ him .
what are you looking at now ?
we had strict injunctions , however , on no account to pass the falls of reichenbach , which are about half way up the hill , without making a small detour to see them .
the more terrible , therefore , seemed that glimpse of the prison or the gallows which had risen before him the night before .
this brought me into the study itself .
he came on the pretence of playing golf .
heaven forgive me for that last sentence , but the words came to my lips .
well , mr holmes , there is no use denying that there is something on my mind .
i give you five minutes , mr holmes .
he led us through the passage and out into a dark hall beyond .
he cried .
but it 's worth it .
carere , the young lady who , as it will be remembered , was found six months later alive and married in new york .
for heaven 's sake , tell me , then , what is this extraordinary mystery !
one fine morning , john ferrier was about to set out to his wheatfields , when he heard the click of the latch , and , looking through the window , saw a stout , sandy haired , middle aged man coming up the pathway .
it broke his heart .
on thinking the matter over , it must have occurred to him that it was possible that he had lost the ring in the road after leaving the house .
i had no idea of the lengths to which this would carry him , until the merest accident opened my eyes to it .
it was strange to see this single candle burning there in the middle of the moor , with no sign of life near it just the one straight yellow flame and the gleam of the rock on each side of it .
as regards your hair , it is no doubt a pity , especially as i could not help remarking its beauty during our short interview , but i am afraid that i must remain firm upon this point , and i only hope that the increased salary may recompense you for the loss .
pistol in hand , we all three rushed into the room .
but my lips are sealed .
if you leave it to a court of law to clear the matter up ,
the partitions between the cells of the convicts , instead of being of thick oak , as is usual in convict ships , were quite thin and frail .
how long can you stay in london ?
in the van of the gipsies who camped on the moor .
he did raise his eyebrows , however , when he found that my friend had neither any luggage nor any explanations for its absence .
the other resumed in a calmer tone .
here , watson , we are all equally anxious to hear it , so kindly read it aloud to us .
it would ease your conscience , and possibly your punishment .
god bless you for promising to come ,
you remember the woman at margate whom i suspected for the same reason .
the boy was nowhere to be seen .
in an instant he was tense and alert , his eyes shining , his face set , his limbs quivering with eager activity .
he earns his living partly as interpreter in the law courts and partly by acting as guide to any wealthy orientals who may visit the northumberland avenue hotels .
i could tell you roughly by the pay list ,
we cried , all three .
if that were true the murderer must have dropped some part of his dress , presumably his overcoat , in his flight , and must have had the hardihood to return and to carry it away at the instant when the son was kneeling with his back turned not a dozen paces off .
there was a violent peal at the bell , and in a few seconds the fair haired detective came up the stairs , three steps at a time , and burst into our sitting room .
same as i said in my cable .
all this gennaro told me and showed me a summons which he had received that very day , a red circle drawn upon the head of it telling him that a lodge would be held upon a certain date , and that his presence at it was required and ordered .
you 've sowed and by the lord , i 'll see that you reap !
tis a safer guide than any promise before you knew what it was that you were saying .
i cried , rubbing my hands .
we have been on a friendly footing for some years i may say on a very friendly footing .
when you go out close the door , for there is a decided draught .
nothing less will hold the london message boy .
i 'm sure you do n't really mean to
she told him of the coronet .
the dash was more fear inspiring than any threat could have been .
he has done nothing except for my sake and because i asked him .
i could stand that , mr musgrave , but not to be cast out before all the folk that i know so well .
holmes drew a note from his pocket , and read aloud :
he was very much closer to the pair than i was , and he appeared to be moving in their direction .
yes , they seem more fertile than the rest .
it was not merely that holmes changed his costume .
sir charles , as is well known , made large sums of money in south african speculation .
that is well .
there is a train from paddington which would bring you there at about
i picked up a chair , but holmes shook his head , and i laid it down again .
thank you for this information ,
i saw the men before ever they came into the house ,
he squatted down in front of the wooden chair and examined the seat of it with the greatest attention .
it was empty yesterday .
i will help you , but on one condition only .
not an unnecessary footstep !
we zig zagged swiftly here and there over europe to throw off the pursuers and finally returned to this house , which he had taken upon his first arrival in england .
he would say nothing of the case , and it was from the papers that i learned the particulars of the inquest , and the arrest with the subsequent release of john mitton , the valet of the deceased .
when the lord removes my father , i shall have his tanning yard and his leather factory .
percy phelps was walking very slowly , leaning upon the arm of his future brother in law .
we 'll have no more violence .
i think , your grace , that i could speak more freely in mr wilder 's absence .
douglas was a remarkable man , both in character and in person .
that is all clear enough , but there was much that was still obscure .
would you give me an introduction to him ?
now this was a case in which you were given the result and had to find everything else for yourself .
i believe he must have waited among the gorse bushes through which the path winds and struck him down as he passed .
i never make exceptions .
it had five well marked foot pads , an indication of long nails , and the whole print might be nearly as large as a dessert spoon .
unfortunately the horns of one of the creatures , either by accident or design , came in violent contact with the flank of the mustang , and excited it to madness .
then blessington must have been sutton .
unless its recovery can be attended with the utmost secrecy , then it may as well not be recovered at all , for all that is aimed at by those who have taken it is that its contents should be generally known .
do n't forget , watson .
but the town showed a dead level of mean ugliness and squalor .
only my maid was up , and she had remained in her room at the top of the house until i needed her services .
say , can you make those dollars yet ?
on tuesday they were gone .
in this case i found her biography sandwiched in between that of a hebrew rabbi and that of a staff commander who had written a monograph upon the deep sea fishes .
ah , jack , ' she said , ' i have just been in to see if i can be of any assistance to our new neighbors .
cried miss harrison .
he would withdraw all opposition upon his part if i would promise for three months to let the matter rest and to be content with cultivating the lady 's friendship during that time without claiming her love .
tut , tut my dear sir , you must really pay attention to these details .
you will ruin no more lives as you have ruined mine .
then , again , where is the price of his treason ?
the lamp shining in broad daylight and the remains of powder upon the shield were successive links in a fairly obvious chain .
whenever a horseman clattered down the road , or a driver shouted at his team , the old farmer hurried to the gate thinking that help had arrived at last .
and all this with such a sneering , leering , insolent face that i would have knocked him down twenty times over if he had been a man of my own age .
it is a great day for me , sir one of the red letter days of my life ,
my colleague , mr lestrade , is here .
he was rattled and bustled by meeting this other fellow .
i have determined , therefore , to call upon you and to consult you in reference to the very painful event which has occurred in connection with my wedding .
but i 'm sure i am exceedingly obliged to you , mr holmes , for the workmanlike way in which you laid hands upon him .
it was nearly one o'clock when sherlock holmes returned from his excursion .
as if i should not know him !
a most practical , pressing matter , which must be decided within twenty four hours .
it came like that , did it ?
we ask you to be rich .
well , it is certainly singular that he should run the risk of taking originals if he could safely have taken copies , which would have equally served his turn .
they drove away in different directions , and i went off to make my own arrangements .
i had always been pretty sharp in the office , but i had never dreamed that i was talked about in the city in this fashion .
when we came to the door , i opened it , and led him into the front room .
if i did n't know you were a good man , walters , i should put a black mark against you for this .
but i must regard what you have just said as either a very bad joke or an insult .
i should have fallen into the hands of the murderous ghazis had it not been for the devotion and courage shown by murray , my orderly , who threw me across a pack horse , and succeeded in bringing me safely to the british lines .
stapleton was with me when i heard it last .
only as much as we can deduce .
still , i could see no better course than to observe him from the hill , and to clear my conscience by confessing to him afterwards what i had done .
i was speaking only half an hour ago to mr henry baker , who was a member of your goose club .
he wore rather baggy grey shepherd 's check trousers , a not over clean black frock coat , unbuttoned in the front , and a drab waistcoat with a heavy brassy albert chain , and a square pierced bit of metal dangling down as an ornament .
very sorry to knock you up , watson ,
here is the account :
and why did the tramp take nothing ?
i took to my heels , did ten miles over the mountains in the darkness , and a week later i found myself in florence , with the certainty that no one in the world knew what had become of me .
really , holmes ,
but , i say , if you are crossing the river you may as well return toby , for i do n't think it is at all likely that we shall have any use for him now .
exactly .
i can hardly put my foot to the ground .
i am afraid that i must leave you to your own devices , as the appearance of two inquiring strangers upon a sleepy countryside might excite more gossip than i care for .
he remained on guard in the bedroom where the crime was committed , so as to see that nothing was touched .
i do n't say that .
let us step round together to the hotel , and see if the porter can throw any fresh light upon the matter .
if you will do this i think the chances are that our little problem will soon be solved .
did this mad wife of his carry it off with her ?
of course the fog was very thick .
because my brother mycroft possesses it in a larger degree than i do .
after that i determined to lie in wait , so i got out my revolver and i sat up in my study , which overlooks the lawn and garden .
the alarm had reached scotland yard by this time , and mr forbes , the detective , came round at once and took up the case with a great deal of energy .
you have a few sheep in the paddock ,
or could it be that there was a prearranged significance to such phrases as ' fly paper ' and ' hen pheasant ' ?
the door had opened suddenly , and a young fellow came swaggering in with the air of one who is the master .
i believe that he would have come all the way had it not been that dr ferrier , who lives near me , was going down by that very train .
my own inclination is to put half a dozen of my farm lads in the shrubbery , and when this fellow comes again to give him such a hiding that he will leave us in peace for the future .
that you , lestrade ?
this had occurred very shortly before , and the boy 's sympathies are known to have been strongly with his mother .
some three hours or so afterwards we were all in the train together , bound from reading to the little berkshire village .
i rushed out , calling loudly for my stepfather , and i met him hastening from his room in his dressing gown .
i think it unlikely that he waited at the moor gate every evening .
because you will find me a dangerous companion now .
it indicates a confederate at the other end .
then it must be the other way that the thief took , ' cried the fellow , tugging at my sleeve .
you see that we hold all the cards , and we have only to fear some sudden act of violence on their part .
you can stand right back and let me run it .
we have three years of the past to discuss .
he was a young man with a clear , hairless face , a long , thin nose , and rather nut cracker jaws .
for myself , my term of service in india had trained me to stand heat better than cold , and a thermometer at ninety was no hardship .
last december four months ago .
and ready to start with an exploring ship ?
could you swear to that man 's face within the cab ?
excuse me ,
i really do n't know that i should be justified in discussing such a point .
holmes put his finger to his lips and glanced at me .
at the present moment you thrill with the glamour of the situation and the anticipation of the hunt .
let us follow it out to the bitter end .
we have not had a difference , not one , in thought or word or deed .
i was invited to a week end gathering at the country house of a cabinet minister .
and the cut a positive tear , i see .
now my theory all along has been that lady st .
but why did you stand all this , ' i asked .
again and again i cross questioned her , but i could never get past that point .
if this abe slaney , living at elrige ' s , is indeed the murderer , and if he has made his escape while i am seated here , i should certainly get into serious trouble .
the flush had faded in an instant , and a deathly face was before me .
he shoved the large tin of cigarettes which stood on a table beside him towards my companion .
it was of the same peculiar tint , and the same thickness .
so paralyzed were we by the apparition that we allowed him to pass before we had recovered our nerve .
there , watson !
mcginty had instruments enough already but he recognized that this was a supremely able one .
there are gaps in that direction which we have still to fill .
it is cut off this ,
i am level with him on that , anyhow .
the lady was on her bed upstairs if we cared to see her .
there is the condition which the modern french psychologists have called the ' idee fixe , ' which may be trifling in character , and accompanied by complete sanity in every other way .
i ran across the heath and peered through the trees .
the long room was crowded , and through the haze of tobacco smoke he saw the tangled black mane of the bodymaster , the cruel , unfriendly features of baldwin , the vulture face of harraway , the secretary , and a dozen more who were among the leaders of the lodge .
is it furnished ?
now , would you kindly step over to that flap window and smell the edge of the wood work ?
as far as we can learn , no actual traces of violence were found upon mr sholto 's person , but a valuable collection of indian gems which the deceased gentleman had inherited from his father has been carried off .
five to four on the field !
i have heard him talk of the coal and iron districts .
indeed ?
i 'll have no more of it !
i have myself some small business matters to attend to .
all that day and the next and the next holmes was in a mood which his friends would call taciturn , and others morose .
exactly .
he would never go where other men were if he could help it .
i have no desire to be discourteous , but you can understand , mr holmes , that we are much disturbed at present , and i must ask you to hasten this interview to an end .
we have a long way to go yet ,
i knew he would be likely to clear off then and give us a chance of getting at miss burnet .
thank you i am afraid i cannot claim her acquaintance .
do you understand ?
the right side ?
holmes shot the slide across the front of his lantern and left us in pitch darkness such an absolute darkness as i have never before experienced .
pray step into the cab , and i shall soon be able to tell you everything which you would wish to know .
his appearance is well , not attractive .
in the dim light i could make out that the person who had opened the door was a small , mean looking , middle aged man with rounded shoulders .
your eyes flashed across to the unframed portrait of henry ward beecher which stands upon the top of your books .
on enquiry we found that the constable was in bed , and we were shown into a little front parlour to await his coming .
yes , yes .
my head swims !
the country detective looked helplessly from one to the other .
that telegram from london , if mentioned by sir henry to the stapletons , must remove the last suspicions from their minds .
that is the name ,
and since ?
neither is it a very far fetched inference that a man who inherits one article of such value is pretty well provided for in other respects .
a more self evident villain i never saw .
holmes laughed at the young giant 's naive astonishment .
i am entirely at your service ,
of course , we still have the feathers , legs , crop , and so on of your own bird , so if you wish
now , take a friend 's advice and go at once !
lestrade took out his official notebook and refreshed his memory from its pages .
beyond the mention of pips , i do not see that it helps us much .
i have put in two hours ' hard work and covered at least five miles , with something to show for it .
he found the bridge down and no one about .
during the winter of that year and the early spring of , i saw in the papers that he had been engaged by the french government upon a matter of supreme importance , and i received two notes from holmes , dated from narbonne and from nimes , from which i gathered that his stay in france was likely to be a long one .
if mycroft has given us the list of addresses we may be able to pick our man and follow two tracks instead of one .
sometimes he visited paris for three months on end , but mitton was left in charge of the godolphin street house .
he is a fresh complexioned , middle sized young man , not far , one would guess , from his thirtieth year .
when mcmurdo awoke next morning he had good reason to remember his initiation into the lodge .
it is , of course , well known to you that in a successful banking business as much depends upon our being able to find remunerative investments for our funds as upon our increasing our connection and the number of our depositors .
you damned murderers !
last night they took one of my brown ones , and today they have sneaked one of the black .
dr fordham came over at once .
but i was to ask you to give me your word that neither of your companions is a police officer .
cried the little fellow with outstretched hands and quivering fingers .
it is the most famous pearl now existing in the world , and it has been my good fortune , by a connected chain of inductive reasoning , to trace it from the prince of colonna 's bedroom at the dacre hotel , where it was lost , to the interior of this , the last of the six busts of napoleon which were manufactured by gelder co .
mr rucastle told me in private that the reason why she had left them was that she had an unreasoning aversion to her stepmother .
having finished his scrutiny , he proceeded slowly down the path , or rather down the fringe of grass which flanked the path , keeping his eyes riveted upon the ground .
simon marriage , and its curious termination , have long ceased to be a subject of interest in those exalted circles in which the unfortunate bridegroom moves .
god bless you !
of course !
it is possible that i might have placed them upon record before , but a promise of secrecy was made at the time , from which i have only been freed during the last month by the untimely death of the lady to whom the pledge was given .
why not ?
have you come from holmes ?
nothing had been moved in the study .
one thing only i am sure of , and that is that he had some weapon in his hand .
who was your accomplice who came for the ring which i advertised ?
i remember the look in your eyes .
he exclaimed .
i was wondering what i should say to this dear little woman to night when she meets me at the door .
well , gentlemen , the day before these happenings i was over in tunbridge wells , and i got a glimpse of a man in the street .
one day he had met me , and fell into talk about the ways of thieves , and how they could get rid of what they stole .
where were the plans ?
watson ,
the proof of this lies in the fact that it was he who had arranged for the presence of scott eccles , which could only have been done for the purpose of an alibi .
a coachman and two maids form the staff of servants .
one month india lay as still and peaceful , to all appearance , as surrey or kent the next there were two hundred thousand black devils let loose , and the country was a perfect hell .
if he had got out , the whole business would come to light , and i should have been court martialled and shot as likely as not for people were not very lenient at a time like that .
i saw them from time to time , for i was anxious to know what they were after .
the flowers were trampled down , and the soft soil was imprinted all over with footmarks .
the king stared at him in amazement .
hullo !
have you ever met him ?
the old woman faced round and looked keenly at him from her little red rimmed eyes .
here and there we drifted about the world , something always turning up to keep us from london .
but i have seen more than that , for hugo baskerville passed me upon his black mare , and there ran mute behind him such a hound of hell as god forbid should ever be at my heels .
you can n't tell on him without getting my wife and me into trouble .
there 's nothing to be afeared about , and there 's no danger at all .
well , this injury , as he would consider it , has rankled in his wicked , scheming brain , and all his life he has longed for vengeance , but never seen his chance .
even thaddeus sholto seemed ill at ease , and the lantern quivered and rattled in his hand .
holmes unfolded the paper carefully and smoothed it out upon his knee .
you were yourself struck by the nature of the injury as recorded by the surgeon at the inquest .
it was now daylight , but the household was not yet stirring .
he never gave reasons for this persistent refusal , but contented himself by resolutely and inflexibly adhering to his determination .
if you examine it carefully you will see that both the pen and the ink have given the writer trouble .
i was removed from my brigade and attached to the berkshires , with whom i served at the fatal battle of maiwand .
it has struck me that it is our duty to drain the moat , in the hope that we may find some
why , mr holmes , when you were crawling in the shrubbery at high gable i was up one of the trees in the plantation and saw you down below .
i believe i am correct colonel , in saying that your bag of tigers still remains unrivalled ?
i went downstairs and carried the dog upstair in my arms it 's laboured breathing and glazing eye showed that it was not far from its end .
as we turned him over i saw a hideous , sallow face , with writhing , furious features , glaring up at us , and i knew that it was indeed the man of the photograph whom we had secured .
what ails you ?
what is it ?
on the next occasion , in the midst of my laughter , i put my handkerchief up to my eyes , and was able with a little management to see all that there was behind me .
we can enter in a minute ,
but the fact remains that there is n't .
but , fortunately , musgrave , who had begun to appreciate the meaning of my proceedings , and who was now as excited as myself , took out his manuscript to check my calculation .
of these , one , the ' lone star , ' instantly attracted my attention , since , although it was reported as having cleared from london , the name is that which is given to one of the states of the union .
thinking that i might have dropped it when i stooped over drebber 's body , i drove back , and leaving my cab in a side street , i went boldly up to the house for i was ready to dare anything rather than lose the ring .
this window on the left is the one which opens into oldacre 's room .
i gave him a little brandy and left him collapsed in a chair , while i made a most careful examination of the room .
with difficulty he limped up to the door , where a squat , dark , elderly man was smoking a black clay pipe .
my life has been one incessant persecution from a husband whom i abhor .
what did he do ?
when was it inhabited ?
my nerves are fairly proof , watson , but i must confess to a start when i saw the very man who had been so much in my thoughts standing there on my threshhold .
the law is upon his side , and every day i am faced by the possibility that he may force me to live with him .
i should have followed him through the open window if i had been stronger .
now where did you get them from ?
there were angry cries as the speaker resumed his seat .
i believe that he had a warning of some sort .
tut , tut !
by jove , peterson !
holmes walked across to the desk and dabbed a little ink from each bottle on to the blotting paper .
i cried .
i have only a little time here ,
you can sit down by the stove in the front room until father comes along ah , here he is !
medical officer for the parishes of grimpen , thorsley , and high barrow .
and many men have been wrongfully hanged .
i am not at home .
my missing boot !
there was many a crime that i could not stop but if you look back and think how often your man came home the other road , or was down in town when you went for him , or stayed indoors when you thought he would come out , you 'll see my work .
the facts , as you state them , are certainly most remarkable ,
there were two occupants of the room one , mrs hudson , who beamed upon us both as we entered the other , the strange dummy which had played so important a part in the evening 's adventures .
on my pressing her , however , she remembered that she heard the word david uttered twice by the lady .
she used to be at the allegro .
if you will have the kindness to hold the lamp for me , we shall now extend our researches to the room above , the secret room in which the treasure was found .
it 's a thousand to one against our finding him at the house ,
drebber and one to joseph stangerson .
sherlock holmes was , as i expected , lounging about his sitting room in his dressing gown , reading the agony column of the times and smoking his before breakfast pipe , which was composed of all the plugs and dottles left from his smokes of the day before , all carefully dried and collected on the corner of the mantelpiece .
we also have our diplomatic secrets ,
simon ,
what do you make of that ?
the next instant i threw myself through , and lay half fainting upon the other side .
unless they are quite new , no two of them write exactly alike .
i 've no time to talk to every gadabout .
well , i was the only journalist in the stand , and my journal the only one that had no account of it , for i was too shaken to write it .
speaking roughly , t , a , o , i , n , s , h , r , d , and l are the numerical order in which letters occur , but t , a , o , and i are very nearly abreast of each other , and it would be an endless task to try each combination until a meaning was arrived at .
there is a trap door communicating with the roof , and it is partly open .
it is a simple calculation enough , though there is no use my boring you with figures .
did he seem to scent a trap ?
my friend smiled .
that you should absolutely follow my advice in every respect .
their system is different from ours .
if there 's a vacant place for a chief of the police , i reckon you are the man for it ,
watson 's reports are most incriminating documents .
holmes sank back in his chair .
these are the folk who must be your very special study .
then we have the name ' douglas ' ' rich country now at birlstone house birlstone confidence is pressing .
it would be a very great help to me if you would come up to london with us .
or towards it ?
what about this poor fellow , hopkins ?
upon the charge of murdering mr jonas oldacre , of lower norwood .
he would be overjoyed .
no , i can n't say i was .
he wore a semi military smoking jacket , claret coloured , with a black velvet collar .
this was the paragraph which i had been engaged in reading when he rose from his chair .
i have seen something of the rough side of life , but i give you my word that this quick succession of strange surprises to night has shaken my nerve completely .
with a few hurried words as to our plans for the morrow he rose and came out with me into the garden , clambering over the wall which leads into mortimer street , and immediately whistling for a hansom , in which i heard him drive away .
a death which has caused my brother to alter his habits can be no ordinary one .
he told me after he had taken the rooms that he would do so and asked me not to bar the door .
you are right ,
i was the only passenger who got out there , and there was no one upon the platform save a single sleepy porter with a lantern .
the maid and the cook have just been searching for him .
my brother and i ,
hopkins has called me in seven times , and on each occasion his summons has been entirely justified ,
i tell you , watson , i 've only known her these few weeks , but from the first i just felt that she was made for me , and she , too she was happy when she was with me , and that i 'll swear .
they were unkempt and weather stained .
there he called a cab and drew mycroft 's paper from his pocket .
but you have recovered them ?
i really had not the energy to follow it up save in a very incomplete fashion , but it gave me a basis for some pleasing speculation .
it is my business , and not yours .
if we could only get at the man at the other end !
who would think that so pretty a toy would be a purveyor to the gallows and the prison ?
i could , however , see that his face was deadly pale and filled with horror and loathing .
it must still be where lucas had placed it , for it was concealed before this dreadful woman entered the room .
you can report to me to morrow in london , martha , at claridge 's hotel .
if the countess is a hard mistress , you have your chance to get level with her now .
there are some trees , watson , which grow to a certain height , and then suddenly develop some unsightly eccentricity .
there was a scuffling of feet , and the lantern began to come steadily down the side of the wall .
i thought i would come back for the key .
there is a date , you see , but no superscription except leadenhall street , which is rather vague .
talk away , mr holmes .
we had driven several miles , and were beginning to get to the fringe of the belt of suburban villas , when he shook himself , shrugged his shoulders , and lit up his pipe with the air of a man who has satisfied himself that he is acting for the best .
at the sound of our steps he glanced round and sprang to his feet with a cry of pleasure .
stop there !
five hundred a year !
for years i have endeavored to break through the veil which shrouded it , and at last the time came when i seized my thread and followed it , until it led me , after a thousand cunning windings , to ex professor moriarty of mathematical celebrity .
impossible !
that screw driver and those screws were , as i conceive , for fixing it up .
lestrade stared at him in amazement .
this must be he .
the grass was growing under it .
i 'll tell you one other thing ,
i can promise you the one , but not the other , ' he snarled , and so turned his rounded back upon me , and went peering and blinking out of the room .
in one of these a staple and chain with a quantity of gnawed bones showed where the animal had been confined .
then he had fallen silent , puffing thoughtfully at his cigar .
it depends upon the breed of men quite as much as on the county ,
you may say before this gentleman anything which you may say to me .
stapleton still looked hard at him .
i 'd had nearly a quarter of a million , had n't i ?
this much we can say : that it is no ordinary love escapade .
to morrow it will be but a dreadful memory .
they are coiners on a large scale , and have used the machine to form the amalgam which has taken the place of silver .
filled with the most maddening doubts and fears , she rushed down the lane and , by rare good fortune , met in fresno street a number of constables with an inspector , all on their way to their beat .
in her right hand was found the charred stump of a match , and in her left a match box .
inspector baynes visited us at baker street with a printed description of the dark face of the secretary , and of the masterful features , the magnetic black eyes , and the tufted brows of his master .
and you must have observed , watson , how she manoeuvred to have the light at her back .
he was a man of a practical turn of mind , keen in his dealings and skilful with his hands .
remarkable as being the scene of the death of wallenstein , and for its numerous glass factories and paper mills .
this is the first volume of a gazetteer which is now being published .
they are only too clear ,
here there lies a grove of trees , marked as the ' ragged shaw , ' and on the farther side stretches a great rolling moor , lower gill moor , extending for ten miles and sloping gradually upward .
his two eyes were shining like stars .
i have some hopes .
i tossed the paper down upon the table , but at that moment my eye caught an advertisement in the agony column .
i learned that detail quite by chance .
he started in his little yacht for norway just before the warrant was issued for his arrest .
because i could tell them what they are dying to know but nothing would induce me to help the rascals in any way .
i 'm new to the place but i 'm not new to you and your kind !
it must have caused great pain when it was inflicted .
the official detective was attired in a pea jacket and cravat , which gave him a decidedly nautical appearance , and he carried a black canvas bag in his hand .
good evening , doctor ,
he whispered .
what on earth does this mean ?
she tried to speak boldly , but she was still deadly pale and could hardly get her words out for the trembling of her lips .
and what else ?
the others we will stuff into the pocket of this young man .
the alarm , however , was given , and , by the aid of the water police , the body was eventually recovered .
is to copy out the encyclopaedia britannica . there is the first volume of it in that press .
the deadliest snake in india .
but if i am spared by lesser men , our day will surely come .
there is a sharp turning of the road , and i pedalled very quickly round this , and then i stopped and waited .
i have heard so much .
striding through the scattered knots of people who lounged round the flaring stalls , my companion speedily overtook the little man and touched him upon the shoulder .
there , that 's enough ,
moriarty himself is enough to make any letter illustrious , and here is morgan the poisoner , and merridew of abominable memory , and mathews , who knocked out my left canine in the waiting room at charing cross , and , finally , here is our friend of to night .
there has been many a hammer murder and no trace on the hammer .
looking back we saw the figure moving slowly away over the broad moor , and behind him that one black smudge on the silvered slope which showed where the man was lying who had come so horribly to his end .
: we will suppose that he reaches london and sees the foreign agent .
it is no reflection upon your professional knowledge ,
it was of common quality , grayish in colour .
for this reason , great care is taken to keep the paper secret .
i had imagined you as operating from the street , where my friend , lestrade and his merry men were awaiting you .
and what does it mean now that you have found it ?
that should be enough for you .
queer place , the moor !
my note to you was absolutely genuine .
he examined the lock of the safe , the door of the room , and finally the iron shutters of the window .
ah , there you lay your finger upon the one point which we shall probably never be able to clear up .
he returned to his miserable lodgings with his plan of vengeance all arranged .
if he braved the matter out , death would unfailingly come upon him , and usually in some strange and unforeseen manner .
a cab had driven up whilst the american had been talking .
i did not say so ,
she would find that i was her best friend .
if there were a hidden meaning in it , i was confident that i could pluck it forth .
but there was no sound save the howling of the wind , and no movement but the swaying branches above them .
from the top of this bowlder the gleam of something bright caught my eye , and , raising my hand , i found that it came from the silver cigarette case which he used to carry .
do you not now observe something very suggestive about it ?
you at once rang for help ?
it was in vain that i asked holmes to remain for the evening .
we have most of us quite enough to do to settle our own .
the inspector was annoyed .
it is not a common experience among employers in this age .
once a clergyman , always a clergyman .
come , now , mr holmes ,
the unfortunate young man was found lying near the table .
it 's enough to make a man bug house when he has to play a part from morning to night with a hundred guys all ready to set the coppers wise to him .
but now i know where the letters are without looking .
it was incredible to me that he could have gone away leaving all his property behind him , and yet where could he be ?
the sign of the four .
then creeping up to me and making a trumpet of his hand , he whispered into my ear again so gently that it was all that i could do to distinguish the words :
you infernal spies !
well , there seems to me to be only one possible solution .
mitton had been in lucas 's employment for three years .
i dare not go so far as that .
there is one point which i should wish to determine .
he is respected in the township and the district .
what could this nn be ?
the whole place was very sloppy from the rain which had fallen through the night .
he gasped .
a year ago godfrey staunton lodged in london for a time and became passionately attached to his landlady 's daughter , whom he married .
a most urgent telegram was dispatched to you from london by godfrey staunton at six fifteen yesterday evening a telegram which is undoubtedly associated with his disappearance and yet you have not had it .
you get a trifle beyond me there ,
even if this lady should never recover consciousness , we can still reconstruct the events of last night and insure that justice be done .
then how could any murderer have got away ?
the book will prove that .
what does he do then ?
there , i think .
right , sir
with these two implements he trotted noiselessly about the room , sometimes stopping , occasionally kneeling , and once lying flat upon his face .
did you close it ?
very good .
this , as you perceive , is a dunlop , with a patch upon the outer cover .
about a quarter of a mile from the stables john straker 's overcoat was flapping from a furze bush .
now this could only be done by having a false key
i will do nothing serious without my trusted comrade and biographer at my elbow .
for some years the organisation flourished in spite of the efforts of the united states government and of the better classes of the community in the south .
yes , one letter .
we can do nothing more until we have a message from our friend at norbury .
i fear that you 'll have a long wait ,
thank you .
they were , for the most part , men of mature age but the rest of the company consisted of young fellows from eighteen to twenty five , the ready and capable agents who carried out the commands of their seniors .
you remember at that date , when i called upon you in your rooms , how i put up the shutters for fear of air guns ?
he 's councillor mcginty , young man ,
yes , i am off ,
yes , but i have a peculiar taste in these matters .
miss morstan sat down , and her face grew white to the lips .
an infernal lie !
there could be no doubt that beddington had obtained entrance by pretending that he had left something behind him , and having murdered the watchman , rapidly rifled the large safe , and then made off with his booty .
he cried .
you think this sir eustace is dead , then ?
the three glasses were grouped together , all of them tinged with wine , and one of them containing some dregs of beeswing .
she listened for an instant , threw up her hands with a despairing gesture , and vanished as suddenly and as noiselessly as she had come .
that 's riding thorpe manor ,
well , i have been twenty seven years in the force , but this really takes the cake .
now , when young ladies wander about the metropolis at this hour of the morning , and knock sleepy people up out of their beds , i presume that it is something very pressing which they have to communicate .
on referring to my notebook for the year , i find that it was upon saturday , the rd of april , that we first heard of miss violet smith .
i am aware that what you say is true about the lady 's resources ,
yes , mr holmes , cyril morton , an electrical engineer , and we hope to be married at the end of the summer .
how comes it that he is unknown ?
why should a man hold a match to the side of his pipe ?
recognizing , as i do , that you are the second highest expert in europe
i shall do nothing more to day , unless i have an answer to my cab advertisement .
she , on the other hand , though devoted and faithful , was less obtrusively affectionate .
possibly you have seen pictures and read descriptions of the famous old building , so i will confine my account of it to saying that it is built in the shape of an l , the long arm being the more modern portion , and the shorter the ancient nucleus , from which the other had developed .
what is this ?
he had played nearly every day at one club or other , but he was a cautious player , and usually rose a winner .
but my wife does .
mcmurdo listened at the door of the lonely house but all was still within .
it may , however , have been written on monday and only posted to day .
smack !
he cried , with amazement on his face .
finally when i got your reply to my wire i came out to you , since i gather that you are a person who gives advice in difficult cases .
these letters would have saved him .
what would it profit a woman , for example , to get him a few months ' imprisonment if her own ruin must immediately follow ?
this was found between the finger and thumb of the dead man .
then get your revolver and put on your boots .
he is not an invention .
his wife !
a chill of fear had come over me , as i thought that his absence might mean that some blow had fallen during the night .
might i trouble you for it the inside page , please , with the leading articles ?
it is out of the question !
watson , i have always done you an injustice .
quick !
the doctor and i will remain on guard , mr pycroft , if you will have the kindness to step out for the police .
but in that case she knows who it is .
but i shall be surprised if it does not turn out to be correct .
the husband was a teetotaler , there was no other woman , and the conduct complained of was that he had drifted into the habit of winding up every meal by taking out his false teeth and hurling them at his wife , which , you will allow , is not an action likely to occur to the imagination of the average story teller .
none in the world , watson .
the matter may still be adjusted .
a glance showed him that chance had put in his way a state document of immense value , and in an instant he had thrust it into his pocket and was gone .
but you remember that our client has rather an early appointment this morning .
he was a very brilliant boy , and carried away every prize which the school had to offer , finished his exploits by winning a scholarship which sent him on to continue his triumphant career at cambridge .
and now i made a very careful examination of the corner of paper which the inspector had submitted to us .
it was from norwood , and ran as follows :
if i 'd known that any letter of mine was goin'to lie loose in a thing like that i 'd have been a mug to write to you at all .
but miss morrison had been with her during the whole of that hour and a half .
i had no idea that such individuals did exist outside of stories .
see how the figures loom up , are dimly seen , and then blend once more into the cloud bank .
thus it was that , year by year , boss mcginty 's diamond pins became more obtrusive , his gold chains more weighty across a more gorgeous vest , and his saloon stretched farther and farther , until it threatened to absorb one whole side of the market square .
he moved out yesterday .
it was a clang of the bell , followed instantly by heavy steps upon the stair .
we have no excuse for an intrusion upon his privacy until we have some reason to think that there is a guilty reason for it .
and it ended by my discovering traces , but very different ones from those which i had expected .
barker shrugged his broad shoulders .
the sister lay back stone dead in her chair , while the two brothers sat on each side of her laughing , shouting , and singing , the senses stricken clean out of them .
i do n't want to say a word against my own sister , but she was always meddlesome and hard to please , was sarah .
i took advantage now of my attainments .
holmes sat up in his chair and rubbed his hands .
and richest ?
you did n't happen to see or hear a cab after that ?
he opened the table drawer as he spoke , and i noticed that he slipped his revolver into his pocket .
and who was the first ?
but your appearance , holmes your ghastly face ?
for him the villain , for me the microbe .
no harm ?
nice , amiable people , watson !
you do n't tell me you keep your papers in that ?
well , we will not detain you any longer , and we are sorry to have put you to this trouble at such a time ,
i rely upon you not only to be discreet and to refrain from all gossip upon the matter but , above all , to preserve this coronet with every possible precaution because i need not say that a great public scandal would be caused if any harm were to befall it .
i did it at once , sir ,
have we reached the limits of what reason can supply ?
there was no possible indication that we intended to go to this hotel .
finally he sprang from his chair with a cry of satisfaction , and walked up and down the room rubbing his hands together .
we have been talking at cross purposes ,
but the eyeglasses ?
he applied a taper to the great bowl , and the smoke bubbled merrily through the rose water .
the yellow face
in some manner he had learned of my own sad bereavement , and his sympathy was shown in his manner rather than in his words .
if stapleton came into the succession , how could he explain the fact that he , the heir , had been living unannounced under another name so close to the property ?
i do n't know if any of you gentlemen have ever read or heard anything of that old fort .
when the troubles broke out he would be friends both with the lion and the tiger , with the sepoy and with the company 's raj .
half way down this staircase is a small landing , with another passage running into it at right angles .
very likely .
my friends and i are going to settle this matter once and forever !
yes , mr holmes , it is as you say , sir he does smoke something terrible .
but surely such an explanation as that would be quite inadequate to account for the deep and subtle scheming which seemed to be weaving an invisible net round the young baronet .
he is a fine , manly fellow .
i suppose that none of these securities have been found among the property of the dead man ?
why did you leave chicago ?
pray give me the results of your newspaper selections .
the detective looked at my friend in a singular way .
now , mr jabez wilson here has been good enough to call upon me this morning , and to begin a narrative which promises to be one of the most singular which i have listened to for some time .
the royal munsters is , as you know , one of the most famous irish regiments in the british army .
it has been a standing jest in the family that nothing could ever wake me during the night .
take yourself away in a week , and give what reason you like for going .
he took up his violin from the corner , and as i stretched myself out he began to play some low , dreamy , melodious air , his own , no doubt , for he had a remarkable gift for improvisation .
sherlock holmes was wrong in his conjecture , however , for there came a step in the passage and a tapping at the door .
sherlock has all the energy of the family ,
you say that you know something .
you carried the thing out very well .
it is most improper most outrageous .
dr becher 's .
this cigarette stub is certainly remarkable .
i am here .
my god !
maybe you are in a humour for a fight , mr boarder !
about nine o'clock the light among the trees was extinguished , and all was dark in the direction of the manor house .
i really think that we may eliminate him entirely from our calculations .
and pray what did you hope to arrive at through this ?
at this instant sir henry suddenly drew miss stapleton to his side .
it is better than to fall before some ignoble foe .
for years i have been aware of its existence though i have never before had the opportunity of handling it .
he yelled , drawing a pistol from his side pull up , i say , or , by george , i 'll put a bullet into your horse .
on entering the room their first proceeding must have been to gag mr blessington .
everything was now in an uproar , some calling for their pistols , some for their horses , and some for another flask of wine .
so far , so good !
holmes interrupted .
i glanced down at the new patent leathers which i was wearing .
the landlady stood in the deepest awe of him and never dared to interfere with him , however outrageous his proceedings might seem .
by george , if he knows i 'll have it out of him !
how is the glass ?
there were ten seconds after that brief speech during which the room might have been empty , so profound was the silence .
willoughby smith had been in his bedroom , which he uses as a sitting room , but the maid heard him at that moment pass along the passage and descend to the study immediately below her .
this is the devon county chronicle of may th of this year .
day or night i dare to look the like of you in the face do n't make any mistake about that !
and that recommendation , with the exaggerated estimate of my ability with which he prefaced it , was , if you will believe me , watson , the very first thing which ever made me feel that a profession might be made out of what had up to that time been the merest hobby .
he used to make merry over the cleverness of women , but i have not heard him do it of late .
what would he do ?
that is the baboon .
he appeared to be deformed , for he carried his head low and walked with his knees bent .
are you not the author of a monograph upon obscure nervous lesions ?
d'you think you know more about fowls than i , who have handled them ever since i was a nipper ?
through the plank partition he could hear the murmur of many voices from the assembly within .
suddenly he turned upon me with a mischievous twinkle in his eyes .
that is how he did it .
the question for us now to solve is the sequence of events leading from a rifled jewel case at one end to the crop of a goose in tottenham court road at the other .
i saw his head for quite a long time craning out of the bog hole , but it sucked him down at last .
i had been away from england for ten years .
how you got on to it i can n't imagine .
the spot where the fragments of the bust had been found was only a few hundred yards away .
i trust that he may not remember any of the answers which i gave him that night .
are you game for a six mile trudge , watson ?
you will visit each of these in turn .
halfway down i slipped , but , by the blessing of god , i landed , torn and bleeding , upon the path .
you see that it is no less than fifteen inches from fore foot to hind .
she is evidently harmless .
somewhat eased in mind , now that his own preparations for escape had been begun , mcmurdo went on to the lodge .
for my part i walked ten miles , got a train at tunbridge wells , and so reached london , and no one the wiser .
barrymore hesitated for a moment , as if he regretted his outburst or found it difficult to express his own feelings in words .
i believe , mr holmes , that you have already made up your mind ,
he had become a visible leader of men .
never mind ,
he was a member of the baldwin , the cavendish , and the bagatelle card clubs .
is it possible that you could come yourself , mr holmes ?
i can n't forget that i spoke my heart to you once , and that you kept it to yourself , even though the boss himself came to ask you about it .
i guess my shot would have been as quick as yours .
we both cried .
and yet those strange , peaked roofs and quaint , overhung gables were a fitting covering to grim and terrible intrigue .
i found distinct traces that this creature had done so .
no one ever needed your advice more than i do .
the fact that the crime was committed at two in the morning , and yet peter carey was fully dressed , suggested that he had an appointment with the murderer , which is borne out by the fact that a bottle of rum and two dirty glasses stood upon the table .
yes , and i have no doubt that is her ring .
drawled holmes before his rival vanished
it was consigned to mr abe slaney , elriges farm , east ruston , norfolk .
many a time i 've heard him call out at the prices they charge for a few odd bags .
for my own part ,
they are for the use of horses , but they are shaped below with a cloven foot of iron , so as to throw pursuers off the track .
the word moor only was printed in ink .
i had quite high words with him last night .
you must see that this is so , madam .
to my dismay the creature flew straight for the great mire , and my acquaintance never paused for an instant , bounding from tuft to tuft behind it , his green net waving in the air .
clair has entered it never to leave it more .
it is now nine thirty .
have you ever heard where his first wife came from ?
as to you , ettie , you 'll come back to me on your knees d'ye hear , girl ?
we arrived in june , and it was july .
but for the happy chance of the gold stuffing , your suspicions would probably never have been aroused .
when he raised his face again , i was surprised to see that his cheek was tinged with color , and his eyes as bright as before his illness .
are you ready to be a cold blooded murderer also , or can we do anything to stop it ?
he had hardly got started with the work , however , when his quick ears caught the sounds of a distant car .
he appeared to have plenty of money , which was said to have been gained in the california gold fields , and it was clear from his own talk and that of his wife that he had spent a part of his life in america .
it came about in this way .
i made the old mare go !
a clue to the criminal .
they were outwardly respectable citizens , well clad and cleanly but a judge of faces would have read little hope for birdy edwards in those hard mouths and remorseless eyes .
now , watson , let us make for gelder co .
at eleven o'clock she rose to leave me , but she paused at the door and looked back .
maybe they will say that i was as bad as you .
and yet i am not convinced of it ,
park lane , upon the thirtieth of last month .
i ejaculated .
here holmes turned suddenly to the right and we found ourselves in a large , square , empty room , heavily shadowed in the corners , but faintly lit in the centre from the lights of the street beyond .
that 's right .
let us have everything in its due order .
right between my finger and thumb , he cried .
relations were strained after that , and further inquiries out of the question .
if you examine this scrap with attention you will come to the conclusion that the man with the stronger hand wrote all his words first , leaving blanks for the other to fill up .
the thing , however , is , as you say , of the simplest .
then i should be very glad to compare impressions as to this most interesting problem which has been submitted to us this morning .
i want you to take back what you 've said , or else make it good .
five hundred pounds for this particular job .
then we shall breakfast early and take the very first in the morning ,
simon had by no means relaxed his rigid attitude , but had listened with a frowning brow and a compressed lip to this long narrative .
scanlan , though a scowrer , was an inoffensive little man who was too weak to stand against the opinion of his comrades , but was secretly horrified by the deeds of blood at which he had sometimes been forced to assist .
i shall look forward to seeing you again this afternoon .
nothing is known of the whereabouts of stangerson .
no confidences , watson for they are mighty awkward if it comes to an arrest for conspiracy and murder .
there was something subtly wrong with the face , some coarseness of expression , some hardness , perhaps , of eye , some looseness of lip which marred its perfect beauty .
cried the colonel .
i took a cab after that and reached my brother 's rooms in pall mall , where i spent the day .
you can put that consideration out of the question .
i held my bedroom candle lit in my hand , and , by its light , behind the first man i saw two others , who were in the act of entering .
let me introduce you to the famous black pearl of the borgias .
sherlock holmes shook his head .
i can drive you ,
i understand that you have something to report , mr holmes ?
she had fainted with horror upon entering the room in the morning and seeing that dreadful company round the table .
i have a mule and two horses waiting in the eagle ravine .
at first , as i examined it , i thought that it was a mummified negro baby , and then it seemed a very twisted and ancient monkey .
he led the way into his bedroom , which was large and comfortably furnished .
you are right in thinking that he is under the british government .
sherlock holmes rose and lit his pipe .
there was such earnestness , such despair , in her manner that her words arrested me , and i stood irresolute before the door .
just a little ,
it is obvious .
cecil barker succeeded mrs allen as a witness .
see how the yellow fog swirls down the street and drifts across the dun colored houses .
wait till you have lived here longer .
but one last word , watson .
but , by bad luck , he was in his dressing gown and had left it in the bedroom last night .
he either avoids the place for weeks , or else he works there from morning to night .
my companion 's expressive face showed a sympathy which was not , i am afraid , entirely unmixed with satisfaction .
would , when he had once been shown a single fact in all its bearings , deduce from it not only all the chain of events which led up to it but also all the results which would follow from it .
he will be here in an hour .
it struck me , however , as being the one which was most likely to interest that exceedingly unpleasant old person .
and how do you propose to prove all this ?
i am one of the hounds and not the wolf mr gregson or mr lestrade will answer for that .
you can do nothing .
i did n't say so , mr holmes i did n't say so .
on the other side were the stables .
cried holmes .
now , only one white man 's name is on the chart .
it creaked and groaned , but did not yield .
now turn that up in the ledger .
the conduct of the criminal investigation has been left in the experienced hands of inspector lestrade , of scotland yard , who is following up the clues with his accustomed energy and sagacity .
he took out the two ears as he spoke , and laying a board across his knee he examined them minutely , while lestrade and i , bending forward on each side of him , glanced alternately at these dreadful relics and at the thoughtful , eager face of our companion .
there is no sign of any other weapon .
then there entered an inner guard with a green and gold sash across his chest .
you cannot imagine how comical he was , and i laughed until i was quite weary .
he sprang up on the mantelpiece , could not quite reach it , put his knee on the bracket you will see the impression in the dust and so got his knife to bear upon the cord .
why do you think that i lock this door ?
with this object i engaged an agent from a private detective firm , who entered my husband 's house as a secretary it was your second secretary , sergius , the one who left you so hurriedly .
in vain he struggled and writhed .
let us have the despatch box brought in .
yes , i have been using myself up rather too freely ,
why should he be missing ?
i do not know where i was , nor whom i spoke with , nor anything save what i have told you .
the two young mormons were not long in discovering the reason of these attempts upon their lives , and led repeated expeditions into the mountains in the hope of capturing or killing their enemy , but always without success .
at that instant i was aware of a bushy black beard and a pair of piercing eyes turned upon us through the side window of the cab .
i have not had time to examine this room yet , but with your permission i shall do so now .
the agent was obliged to me for my warning , but told me that the rent had been paid in advance .
upon my word , watson !
the cunning rascal !
but i can n't forget them , miss stapleton ,
you have nothing to add then , which could assist me ?
he was a well known ne ' er do well among the italian colony .
i gasped .
who 's teddy ?
there is one explanation .
well , i kept my knowledge to myself , and waited to see what would come of it .
one moment !
this little group forms the real family , for they travel about together , and henderson is a great traveller , always on the move .
holmes leaned forward in his excitement and his eyes had the hard , dry glitter which shot from them when he was keenly interested .
you will observe ,
quite so , but it seems rather an absurd blind , does it not ?
some one , then , was in that room where my precious treaty lay upon the table .
then how could it leave the despatch box ?
it was only when those dead , dark eyes , deep and remorseless , were turned upon a man that he shrank within himself , feeling that he was face to face with an infinite possibility of latent evil , with a strength and courage and cunning behind it which made it a thousand times more deadly .
the maid stood petrified for a moment , and then , recovering her courage , she ran downstairs .
there was a double line of tracks of a booted man , and a second double line which i saw with delight belonged to a man with naked feet .
i ran back for a light and there was the poor fellow , a great gash in his throat and the whole place swimming in blood .
the commissionnaire and his wife have been examined in every way without any light being thrown upon the matter .
write fully to address given on card .
the doctor ?
having concluded this to my satisfaction and learning that only one of my enemies was now left in london , i was about to return when my movements were hastened by the news of this very remarkable park lane mystery , which not only appealed to me by its own merits , but which seemed to offer some most peculiar personal opportunities .
, whatever that may mean and he made his escape through the window and across the moat at the very moment when cecil barker was discovering the crime .
then what was the beast ?
it irritates me though .
that seems simple enough .
i promise ,
you smile , friend watson .
you will excuse these remarks from one who , though a mere connoisseur of crime , is still rather older and perhaps more experienced than yourself .
the game 's up , ryder ,
if its appearance did not frighten its victim to death , at least it would paralyze the resistance which might be offered .
sir charles was a retiring man , but the chance of his illness brought us together , and a community of interests in science kept us so .
we can do that to morrow .
i am delighted to hear it , for your advice at present would be exceedingly valuable to me .
having done this , you must at once put the box out upon the sundial , as directed .
a fire was burning in this new room , and again the air was heavy with tobacco smoke .
i 'd have a short life if he had his way the black eyed , scowling , yellow devil .
did i not see you trying to tear off another piece ?
i heard my wife coming , and i ran to the door and stopped her .
holmes groaned , and his face glimmered white through the darkness .
she was a blonde young lady , small , dainty , well gloved , and dressed in the most perfect taste .
anyhow it was my innings that time , and i do n't ever wish to feel better pleased .
i will come ,
a steady , respectable , middle aged man , too , on the face of him all facts which led me to believe that he had been a sergeant .
i have been commissioned to meet him , and to make the best terms i can .
dinner was on the table before he appeared .
in spite of the light brown dustcoat and leather leggings which he wore in deference to his rustic surroundings , i had no difficulty in recognising lestrade , of scotland yard .
but now from somewhere among the broken ground immediately in front of us there came one last despairing yell , and then a dull , heavy thud .
my dear sir , you have done wonders .
come to the other end of the street and let us see if we can hear of anything .
he impressed you in that way , did he ?
twenty four geese at s .
, chicago ?
i am to be neutral ?
the baron looked at his watch and gave a guttural exclamation of disappointment .
the moor is being scoured for these gypsies .
i will swear it , ' i answered , ' provided that the fort is not endangered .
i tell you that .
can you imagine what it means for a sensitive and high spirited woman to be tied to him for day and night ?
my practice has extended recently to the continent ,
a gentleman entered , with a pleasant , cultured face , high nosed and pale , with something perhaps of petulance about the mouth , and with the steady , well opened eye of a man whose pleasant lot it had ever been to command and to be obeyed .
it grows darker instead of clearer .
i had no idea that you noticed that ,
he was very like the chap i had seen the night before , the same figure and voice , but he was clean shaven and his hair was lighter .
it was in this way .
my observations of no .
poor devil , how could i be angry when i saw him lying in such a plight before me ?
you will excuse this mask ,
excellent .
we may thank our stars that it is not raining .
i came here straight from the yard to ask you to your face what you had against me .
i commend it very specially to your attention , lestrade and also the bullets which fit it .
simpson beat out the trainer 's brains with his heavy stick without receiving any injury from the small knife which straker used in self defence , and then the thief either led the horse on to some secret hiding place , or else it may have bolted during the struggle , and be now wandering out on the moors .
tell me , dad , did you give lucy , the maid , leave to go out to night ?
my colors have not passed .
the fog was so thick that a cab was useless .
quick , dr watson , quick , before he passes over the hill !
and what did you learn from him ?
by the time that you discovered me upon the moor i had a complete knowledge of the whole business , but i had not a case which could go to a jury .
that door leads into an inner room .
you will deliver it at the russian embassy .
what do you say to a ramble through london ?
and now tell me the result of your visit to mrs laura lyons it was not difficult for me to guess that it was to see her that you had gone , for i am already aware that she is the one person in coombe tracey who might be of service to us in the matter .
she could trust her own guardianship , but she could not tell what indirect or political influence might be brought to bear upon a business man .
he gave no name ?
certainly , colonel , you shall know everything .
that 's our business .
i guess when a man has had dangers in his life and i 've had more than most in my time there is a kind of sixth sense that waves the red flag .
and now that you have explained it , i confess that i am as amazed as before .
our gas was lit and shone on the white cloth and glimmer of china and metal , for the table had not been cleared yet .
holmes had already drawn his revolver , and i whipped out mine at the sight of this savage , distorted creature .
cried mycroft , springing to his feet .
he thought for a few minutes .
half the match is consumed in lighting a pipe or cigar .
with great activity , considering his bulk , he sprang up the steps and squeezed through into the garret , and immediately afterwards we heard his exulting voice proclaiming that he had found the trap door .
this bottle was opened by a pocket screw , probably contained in a knife , and not more than an inch and a half long .
for more than twenty years we have led peaceful and useful lives , and we hoped that our past was forever buried .
mr holmes , they were the footprints of a gigantic hound !
mr holmes , if ever you put forward your full powers , i implore you to do so now , for never in your life could you have a case which is more worthy of them .
i did as i was told , and at the same instant mrs rucastle drew down the blind .
i think that it is not difficult to explain the facts .
nor from below ,
shortly after my return i heard the wheels of his trap in the yard , and , looking out of my window , i saw him get out and walk rapidly out of the yard , though i was not aware in which direction he was going .
when you spoke last night of taking precautions i remember that it passed through my mind that this was probably the last parish in england to which the thief or thieves would be likely to turn their attention which shows that i have still much to learn .
suggests your own name .
her bed this morning had not been slept in , her room was empty , and a note for me lay upon the hall table .
he can locate him , i guess .
if i have seen her , it is because you cannot visit a man without knowing his wife .
it has certainly a character of its own .
but now i see that i was never anything but a tool in his hands .
what has the man done ?
very different was he , however , from the brusque and masterful professor of common sense who had taken over the case so confidently at upper norwood .
both door and window were only open for a very short time , however .
dear me !
who are you , and what do you want here ?
it can be imagined that my close intimacy with sherlock holmes had interested me deeply in crime , and that after his disappearance i never failed to read with care the various problems which came before the public .
whoever rang it must have come right up to the desk to do it .
he saw nothing that evening .
there was only one student in the room , who was bending over a distant table absorbed in his work .
you 'll have to be affiliated to lodge , brother mcmurdo .
her chubby face , and his haggard , angular visage were both turned up to the cloudless heaven in heartfelt entreaty to that dread being with whom they were face to face , while the two voices the one thin and clear , the other deep and harsh united in the entreaty for mercy and forgiveness .
it can be built up as an exact science by the reasoner .
let us see if there is any answer .
that trick of staining the fishes ' scales of a delicate pink is quite peculiar to china .
i beg pardon .
you might do it once the other way , but not as a constancy .
make a note of the address , b corporation street , and remember that one o'clock to morrow is your appointment .
what is very clear is that you are not the man for the place , and that the sooner you sell out if you only get a dime a dollar for what the business is worth the better it will be for you .
but meanwhile , you have time to make some small reparation for the injury you have wrought .
mr henry baker , i believe ,
there is the door , and there is the window .
no man burdens his mind with small matters unless he has some very good reason for doing so .
it was strange to me to be standing there with those two wild punjaubees waiting for the man who was coming to his death .
these have both been with him since his arrival , and they seem to be women of excellent character .
exit the solicitor .
i have no doubt that my own ideas were quite wild , but you must admit that they have ended in discovering the silver .
now , watson , now !
the youthful figure and alert , eager face of inspector stanley hopkins confronted us in the open doorway .
voil tout !
but the letter had also a greater distance to come .
for a long time , even with the utmost discretion and reticence , it would have been impossible to make the facts public , but now the principal person concerned is beyond the reach of human law , and with due suppression the story may be told in such fashion as to injure no one .
this has involved me in extra trouble , however , and i must ask you for a further advance of five hundred pounds .
i had already observed that he was as sensitive to flattery on the score of his art as any girl could be of her beauty .
for a moment i thought you had done something clever .
they say he could chalk his billiard cue with his knuckles .
not so many as you might think , ' he answered .
i have nothing against you ,
it may , of course , be a mere coincidence , or it may point to some nervousness which would indicate that he had reason to apprehend danger .
mrs rucastle , however , who has evidently no sense of humour , never so much as smiled , but sat with her hands in her lap , and a sad , anxious look upon her face .
we are on the outskirts of lee ,
i am sure that you will respect my confidence , mr holmes , when i tell you that my place here has become difficult , owing to the fact that my employer has proposed marriage to me .
and with that he rushed off in the other direction .
that is quite cleared up now though , indeed , it was obvious from the first .
i do n't understand that .
as we moved across it in the direction of the window , holmes fell back until he and i were the last of the group .
when my old tutor used to give me an exercise in trigonometry , it always took the shape of measuring heights .
he was coarse in his habits and brutish in his ways .
i had to knock for some time at no .
i was very weak , but i have had a good deal to go through .
alas , in less than an hour there was a ring at the bell , and i learned that mr drebber had returned .
then at last there were steps in the road , a second figure was visible for an instant against the light , the door shut , and all was black once more .
that very night he went down to woodman 's lee , saw peter carey at the hut , quarrelled with him , and killed him with the harpoon .
but you are a man of action you are a man of affairs .
i would rather swing a score of times , or have one of tonga 's darts in my hide , than live in a convict 's cell and feel that another man is at his ease in a palace with the money that should be mine .
but , first , as i am rather shaken by the knocking about which i had in the dressing room , i think that i shall help myself to a dash of your brandy , colonel .
and ames , the faithful ames , no doubt he will stretch a point for me .
you would not think pounds apiece an excessive sum for them ?
but there were others who sat with compressed lips and brooding eyes as the men filed out of the dock .
are you armed ?
that when mr windibank came back from france he was very annoyed at your having gone to the ball .
holmes chuckled .
would you think me impertinent if i were to put your theories to a more severe test ?
i had a note from him this morning , in which he says :
very good , sir , i will take up your card .
mrs lyons flushed with anger again .
i caught one glimpse of his short , squat , strongly built figure as he sprang to his feet and turned to run .
here is the fruit of my leisured ease , the magnum opus of my latter years !
i believed it for the moment .
here you are , then !
finally , he sniffed the dead man 's lips , and then glanced at the soles of his patent leather boots .
heir and only child , lord saltire .
sea unicorn , dundee .
as it is , i have been able to get about as i could not possibly have done had i been living in the hall , and i remain an unknown factor in the business , ready to throw in all my weight at a critical moment .
i think that it is very probable .
it is at the end of a word .
they seem to have been of a most interesting character dummy bell ropes , and ventilators which do not ventilate .
such a meaning would be arbitrary and could not be deduced in any way .
you were always a noble woman , anna ,
he continued , when they had gone ,
what about
i 've nothing more to say to you , except that when my time comes i 'll die the easier when i think of the work i have done in this valley .
the clouds will pass .
a long shot , watson a very long shot ,
loud as it was , it was not sufficient to rouse the two tired wayfarers above them .
a lens and a forceps lying upon the seat of the chair suggested that the hat had been suspended in this manner for the purpose of examination .
i understand that this other passage leads only to the professor 's room .
you do n't mind my driving straight home , sir henry ?
but he received it on that day ?
in an instant out there slipped a beautiful reddish brown creature , thin and lithe , with the legs of a stoat , a long , thin nose , and a pair of the finest red eyes that ever i saw in an animal 's head .
they are hellish things ,
self defence is one thing .
it appears though this james only heard yesterday that they were pursued , that hayes struck the pursuer with his stick , and that the man died of his injuries .
for some minutes he stood watching intently .
the american , a quiet , businesslike young man , with a clean shaven , hatchet face , flushed up at the words of commendation .
if you will wait outside , i shall be with you in five minutes .
in quest of a solution
nothing for a week after that .
a double carriage sweep , with a snow clad lawn , stretched down in front to two large iron gates which closed the entrance .
all emotions , and that one particularly , were abhorrent to his cold , precise but admirably balanced mind .
a day which has saved england from a great public scandal ,
and yet it was not quite the last .
i was a bit staggered at this , for i had imagined it was simply a new dress or something of the kind that she was after .
but the evening has brought a breeze with it .
i had never seen my friend 's face so grim or his brow so dark as it was when we turned from the scene of this investigation .
please be at the black swan hotel at winchester at midday to morrow ,
these are the very papers , watson , which he handed to me , and i will read them to you , as i read them in the old study that night to him .
it will serve to take him to scotland yard .
the burglar , sir he was off like a shot and got clean away .
if you will both come up and leave your boots below on the landing , i 'll put you there now .
now the window was shut , but the fire would naturally carry fumes to some extent up the chimney .
well , when i came to examine the box i found there was no money in it , and nothing but papers that i would not dare to sell .
whatever she may have deserved one could not allow her to go hopelessly to the bad .
the driver pointed with his whip .
between a slop shop and a gin shop , approached by a steep flight of steps leading down to a black gap like the mouth of a cave , i found the den of which i was in search .
the best defence that i can make is just the simple truth .
whatever were you doing with that bird , jem ?
do you mean to say that anyone holding these three papers , and without the seven others , could construct a bruce partington submarine ?
he intended to make a bargain with me to restore arthur if i would break the entail , and so make it possible for the estate to be left to him by will .
of course , we do not yet know what the relations may have been between alec cunningham , william kirwan , and annie morrison .
mr grant munro pushed impatiently forward , however , and we stumbled after him as best we could .
you then walked swiftly for the mile which separated you from the vicarage .
exactly , but there was beeswing only in one glass .
then he took the envelope itself , held it up to the light , and very carefully studied both the exterior and the flap .
holmes had sat up upon the couch , and i saw him motion like a man who is in need of air .
it was not that i wished to live for my own sake , but it was that i desired to accomplish my purpose .
suddenly , however , holmes 's voice broke in upon us .
in the silence of the room i could hear a dull humming and buzzing noise which proceeded from the same source .
i believe that they are really after us .
the giant hound was dead .
evidently ,
no purse , but loose money to the extent of seven pounds thirteen .
she had reached the outskirts of the city when she found the road blocked by a great drove of cattle , driven by a half dozen wild looking herdsmen from the plains .
you would not denounce the man ?
i copied as quickly as i could , but at nine o'clock i had only done nine articles , and it seemed hopeless for me to attempt to catch my train .
so long as he was in actual professional practice the records of his successes were of some practical value to him , but since he has definitely retired from london and betaken himself to study and bee farming on the sussex downs , notoriety has become hateful to him , and he has peremptorily requested that his wishes in this matter should be strictly observed .
this will never do .
his name was hugh pattins .
at last after so many years they were broken and scattered .
in the year i took my degree of doctor of medicine of the university of london , and proceeded to netley to go through the course prescribed for surgeons in the army .
oh , very well .
that night i was happy , for i had my letter , and i had not seen yet what the future would bring .
you can hardly expect us to exert ourselves to find another such opening for you .
au revoir ,
it was after nine this morning when we reached his house and found neither you nor anyone else inside it .
it 's the pet story of the family , though i never thought of taking it seriously before .
it arrived upon christmas morning , in company with a good fat goose , which is , i have no doubt , roasting at this moment in front of peterson 's fire .
his small eyes glowed and burned with a sombre light , and his thick lips were writhed back from his teeth , which grinned and chattered at us with a half animal fury .
in the bedroom he made a rapid cast around and ended by throwing open the window , which appeared to give him some fresh cause for excitement , for he leaned out of it with loud ejaculations of interest and delight .
quite so at the gold mines , where , as i understand , mr turner made his money .
yes , sir and no later than this morning .
an exposure would profit me indirectly to a considerable extent .
baldwin he speaks like that , does he ?
here is our expected cablegram .
mcmurdo pushed open the swinging door of the saloon and made his way amid the crowd of men within , through an atmosphere blurred with tobacco smoke and heavy with the smell of spirits .
he put his gloves on the chair , and he took the proofs , sheet by sheet , to copy them .
my messenger reached you , then ?
intense mental concentration has a curious way of blotting out what has passed .
i shall want your help to night .
continued the detective .
lestrade laughed indulgently .
well , well , my dear sir , do n't look so depressed .
the first ones had been caused by some one forcing an instrument through the slit between the sashes , and the second by the catch being pressed back .
when he turned the corner , he came full in sight of the spot where the fire had been lit .
mccarthy had one son , a lad of eighteen , and turner had an only daughter of the same age , but neither of them had wives living .
i tried to throw her off , but she clung to me most desperately .
you seem to be a walking calendar of crime ,
there is no other injustice in her case that you know of .
nothing .
the card is some hocus pocus , a blind , as like as not .
have you managed it ?
is that eduardo lucas of godolphin street ?
so long , mate !
then there was a loud and authoritative tap .
and you 'll probably find that your creditors will impound the banking account of mr cornelius ,
and yet , as he had guessed , the game was not over yet .
i must go back , or he will miss me and suspect that i have seen you .
there is our starting point .
thence i went straight to a friend in america .
we may in our humble way do something to make things more easy for him until he becomes accustomed to his new surroundings .
you will excuse me , mr sholto ,
i fear , sir ,
there is a rajah in the northern provinces who has much wealth , though his lands are small .
then he certainly took a footpath on one side or the other .
the manor house is , as i have already said , very old , and only one wing is now inhabited .
then i am your elder , and am higher in the church .
well , i will tell you ,
it would be a great pleasure to me .
and the cigar holder ?
it is john hopley neligan .
it was with some surprise , therefore , that i saw him walk into my consulting room upon the evening of april th .
a professional case of great gravity was engaging my own attention at the time , and the whole of next day i was busy at the bedside of the sufferer .
on the other hand , there was no wound upon his person , while the state of straker 's knife would show that one at least of his assailants must bear his mark upon him .
or did it come through the post ?
without having a tinge of cruelty in his singular composition , he was undoubtedly callous from long overstimulation .
he has every requirement .
for christ 's sake , do n't !
it is my business to soothe it .
of course i know that very well .
i think that i see my way to clearing james mccarthy ,
but the note itself .
i had picked up the original cipher message and was bending my brows over it .
if it is not column , then i am very much deceived .
yes , there are one or two paths which a very active man can take .
i did as she asked me , and they talked together for a few minutes .
might i ask you a question or two ?
but i suppose either sir james , or you , or west has that technical knowledge ?
as to the note , it is important also , or at least the initials are , so i congratulate you again .
holmes had taken out his watch , and as minute followed minute without result , an expression of the utmost chagrin and disappointment appeared upon his features .
we were to go to the theatre .
pinkerton has taken hold under their orders , and his best man , birdy edwards , is operating .
i relapsed into my chair .
exactly .
if you will treat me as a friend and trust me , you may find that i will justify your trust .
walker brothers sent in a hundred but i took it on myself to return it and ask for five .
we have sworn it .
his eyes were on the trail , but i happened to look a little to one side , and saw to my surprise the same tracks coming back again in the opposite direction .
it is too serious for me to speak about , even to you ,
he could only say that if i waited i should hear by post .
yes , a queer mongrel , with a most amazing power of scent .
she is there ,
they 've gone , mr holmes .
even his son remarked it .
at reading i had to change not only my carriage but my station .
do n't go , doctor .
but why at such an hour ?
he is lost if he returns to london .
but do n't trouble to trace the mysterious gentleman upon the bicycle .
a vague , nameless dread came over him , and he hurried onwards frantically , dropping the precious food in his agitation .
the treasure had been found .
it was him that sacked me without a character on the word of a lying corn chandler .
spaulding , he came down into the office just this day eight weeks , with this very paper in his hand , and he says :
he can never say enough about it .
when i rose from my father i looked round for it , but it was gone .
just this ,
what steps have you taken ?
outside of a show i have never seen so tall a man .
it was i who brought about the separation between irene adler and the late king of bohemia when your cousin heinrich was the imperial envoy .
it must have been a young man , and an active one , too , besides being an incomparable actor .
there was a sharp spring inside it .
how came the stone into the goose , and how came the goose into the open market ?
he cried , and he almost screeched the words in his excitement ,
holmes 's face showed his disappointment and annoyance .
by gar !
close at the heels of his messenger came cecil barker , our friend of the moated manor house .
what with her natural blindness , and what with the change from dark to light , she stood as one dazed , blinking about her to see where and who we were .
the earth is of this peculiar reddish tint which is found , as far as i know , nowhere else in the neighborhood .
let me introduce you to mr jefferson hope , the murderer of enoch drebber and of joseph stangerson .
they were a gang , and a rough one , too .
that 's the window ,
the other man
several rolls of paper were within , covered with figures and calculations , without any note to show to what they referred .
it seemed to me that i had never met so fascinating and so thoughtful a man .
but how can we do it ?
but the manuscript is short and is intimately connected with the affair .
the door had eventually to be opened by a locksmith from aldershot .
i was like a wild beast then that had tasted blood .
i had no keener pleasure than in following holmes in his professional investigations , and in admiring the rapid deductions , as swift as intuitions , and yet always founded on a logical basis with which he unravelled the problems which were submitted to him .
one does not like to speak of one 's domestic affairs to strangers .
i ordered it for half past six .
i guessed that he had done the deed for the sake of what was in that tin box , and that he could afford now to pay me well for keeping my mouth shut .
why did he shoot him ?
yes , sir !
my face lengthened at this , mr holmes , for i thought that i was not to have the vacancy after all but after thinking it over for a few minutes he said that it would be all right .
if this young person should produce her letters for blackmailing or other purposes , how is she to prove their authenticity ?
had anyone visited you in your room after the papers came to you ?
white mason is a smart man .
but to me it seems immensely practical , and i fancy that brunton took the same view .
there remained two busts , and it was obvious that he would go for the london one first .
it was clearer than ever that she understood its full significance , but equally clear that we should have to wait some time for any assistance from her .
there is much that is still obscure , though i have quite made up my mind on the main facts .
you have given me fresh life and hope .
these americans were well advised .
i was distressed therefore when another member of the family came down to live here , and i felt that he should be warned of the danger which he will run .
already our man had gone round the gallery and the corridor was all in darkness .
i can only think of the obvious conclusion that the man has practised in town before going to the country .
i shall have him , doctor i 'll lay you two to one that i have him .
mcmurdo had laid down the paper , and was lighting his pipe with a hand which was shaky from the excesses of the previous evening , when there was a knock outside , and his landlady brought to him a note which had just been handed in by a lad .
he hustled on his overcoat , and bustled about in a way that showed that an energetic fit had superseded the apathetic one .
i am a faithful member you all know that and it is my fear lest evil come to the lodge which makes me speak in anxious words .
but my memory and my girl !
my dear holmes : my previous letters and telegrams have kept you pretty well up to date as to all that has occurred in this most god forsaken corner of the world .
since , however , we had already determined that small had come from the andamans , it is not so very wonderful that this islander should be with him .
one day , however , i got word that he was dying .
the box had been sent by parcel post from belfast upon the morning before .
evening was drawing in when we reassembled .
you do n't mean to say ?
again and again he did it , until the safe was empty .
as i passed the tall man who sat by the brazier i felt a sudden pluck at my skirt , and a low voice whispered ,
consider what is involved by your theory .
here it is .
stanley hopkins drew the key from his pocket and had stooped to the lock , when he paused with a look of attention and surprise upon his face .
some deviltry is intended against one douglas , whoever he may be , residing as stated , a rich country gentleman .
the letter arrived on march , .
he took a notebook from the drawer of his desk .
well , that 's because he dare n't trust you .
as we approached , the lady staggered against the trunk of the tree for support .
day or night , i 'll come at the word , jack .
i have already told you , have i not , that one was elderly , with a beard , and the others young , hairless lads .
my heart sank for barrymore .
the proposition took me completely by surprise , but before i had time to answer , baskerville seized me by the hand and wrung it heartily .
pass it on to him , and from him to the others .
however , when our turn came the little man was much more favourable to me than to any of the others , and he closed the door as we entered , so that he might have a private word with us .
come , watson , come !
he impressed these points upon them with the utmost earnestness .
in the cells .
a fierce bull dog face was framed in a tangle of hair and beard , and two bold , dark eyes gleamed behind the cover of thick , tufted , overhung eyebrows .
i feared that our talk would wake you .
yes i am ,
very likely he had spoken to him privately , and had threatened to expose him unless he voluntarily resigned his membership of the club , and promised not to play cards again .
certainly , mr pycroft , certainly ,
i guess the very best case i can make for myself is the absolute naked truth .
he had spoken in jesting vein , but the twitching of his bushy eyebrows bespoke his disappointment and irritation .
you are the one to handle him ,
silver blaze
no , i fancy we shall get no help here .
round his brow he had a peculiar yellow band , with brownish speckles , which seemed to be bound tightly round his head .
were you alone during this conversation ?
as long as this man has no idea that anyone can have a clue there is some chance of securing him but if he had the slightest suspicion , he would change his name , and vanish in an instant among the four million inhabitants of this great city .
would you mind letting us know what you have seen and done ?
you do n't seem surprised .
this is what he says :
holmes shrugged his shoulders .
, high holborn , had been left behind .
but there might have been stains , and that would have helped us .
worse and worse !
you are trying to frighten me .
in an instant holmes had changed from the languid dreamer to the man of action .
let us see then if we can narrow it down .
his friend and secretary , mr lucas , is undoubtedly a foreigner , chocolate brown , wily , suave , and catlike , with a poisonous gentleness of speech .
once only we saw a trace that someone had passed that perilous way before us .
you are not wounded , holmes ?
we had an inn and two houses a little above us , and a single cottage at the other side of the field which faces us , and except those there were no houses until you got half way to the station .
that is suggestive ,
but why should such an idea cross your mind ?
certainly not ,
i 've heard ,
sherlock holmes swallowed a cup of coffee , and turned his attention to the ham and eggs .
absolutely .
between ourselves , the recent cases in which i have been of assistance to the royal family of scandinavia , and to the french republic , have left me in such a position that i could continue to live in the quiet fashion which is most congenial to me , and to concentrate my attention upon my chemical researches .
let us go down .
but the methods i hold to have been novel and of interest .
there was no need for her to speak , nor for me either .
i think , ettie , that if you were to leave us alone we could get this thing settled ,
gone to the dealer 's , jem .
the more deeply sunk impression is , of course , the hind wheel , upon which the weight rests .
until after the alarm of fire , i had not a suspicion .
then i thought of you , mr holmes .
you are police , are you not ?
you can hang me , or you can leave me alone .
we were fairly after her now .
i should much prefer to have it so ,
come , come , who did you think we were when you ran away from us ?
dear , dear , that 's bad !
his coachman
it is human to err , and at least no one can accuse you of being a callous criminal .
i brought cartwright down with me you remember the little chap at the express office and he has seen after my simple wants : a loaf of bread and a clean collar .
i took the papers and
how did you open it before ?
his placid face and regular breathing showed that he was fast asleep .
he has a brain of the first order .
i 've been checkmated in london .
i let you know , then , that i have caught him !
he just knows that he was lifted up as if by magic and dropped as if by magic .
as a matter of fact , burglars who have done a good stroke of business are , as a rule , only too glad to enjoy the proceeds in peace and quiet without embarking on another perilous undertaking .
you have possibly had other guns in reserve in case there should be several tigers , or in the unlikely supposition of your own aim failing you .
when i came to examine the treaty i saw at once that it was of such importance that my uncle had been guilty of no exaggeration in what he had said .
holmes glanced over them and returned them .
then i took two lengths of a fishing rod , which came to just six feet , and i went back with my client to where the elm had been .
your features , and especially your eyes .
in the centre ?
in that case the overcoat was not blown against the furze bush , but placed there .
it is a matter of honour with me that i can give no further particulars about the letter , nor put it into your hands but i assure you that there is nothing else in it which can affect the interests of the lodge .
i was very much surprised therefore , when yesterday , about three o clock in the afternoon , he walked into my office in the city .
the wheels died away down the drive while sir henry and i turned into the hall , and the door clanged heavily behind us .
he swore in his heart that he would not fail in this if human effort and human perseverance could render him successful .
it ran ' please , please , as you are a gentleman , burn this letter , and be at the gate by ten o clock .
my mother was dead , and i had no relative in england .
mr sherlock holmes was leaning back in his chair after his whimsical protest , and was unfolding his morning paper in a leisurely fashion , when our attention was arrested by a tremendous ring at the bell , followed immediately by a hollow drumming sound , as if someone were beating on the outer door with his fist .
exactly .
the very next train roared from the tunnel as before , but slowed in the open , and then , with a creaking of brakes , pulled up immediately beneath us .
beautiful !
you can hang me , or do what you like with me , but you cannot punish me as i have been punished already .
i say it is south , for the country is more deserted there .
i am not accustomed , sir ,
yes , yes , i think i see how we should approach it .
when i had taken the copy , i rubbed out the marks , but , two mornings later , a fresh inscription had appeared .
he had thought to pass in without ceremony as being an initiate of chicago but there were particular rites in vermissa of which they were proud , and these had to be undergone by every postulant .
above all , where could he , a stranger to the district , hide a horse , and such a horse as this ?
well , well , such is fame !
there is something which i do n't understand in this manner .
saturday would suit them better than any other day , as it would give them two days for their escape .
now , jump in , and let us see if i can repair the consequences of my own blunder .
it was felt that a new sun was pushing its rim above the horizon .
presuming that your theory is correct , if he can lay his hands upon the man who threatened you last night he will have gone a long way towards finding who took the naval treaty .
i have seen a good deal of him since ,
the trainer , john straker , is a retired jockey who rode in colonel ross 's colors before he became too heavy for the weighing chair .
i know that well .
you can keep on saying no , ettie : the day will come when you will say yes , and i 'm young enough to wait .
he had been talking in a high , quick voice , staring blankly up over the garden fence , but now he sprang briskly to his feet and walked towards the house .
it is true ,
his gaunt face , however , and his clothes , which hung so baggily over his shrivelled limbs , proclaimed what it was that gave him that senile and decrepit appearance .
so i am .
tell me about last night .
however , it was clearly our duty to see her , so we went .
but now all my professional instincts were aroused .
mcginty released his hold , and baldwin , cowed and shaken gasping for breath , and shivering in every limb , as one who has looked over the very edge of death , sat up on the barrel over which he had been hurled .
barker looked sternly at the detective .
i 'll lock it up in my strong box now and drop a line to the countess to say that we have it .
he was a large man with rounded shoulders , a massive head , and a broad , intelligent face , sloping down to a pointed beard of grizzled brown .
i should not go too far if i were to say that there was a general impression at that time that a distinguished career lay before me .
and i have some business to do which will take some hours .
let me explain .
you perceive that we have taken you into our confidence over some very private business .
i gave a trifle myself .
and always , apart from the hound , there is the fact of the human agency in london , the man in the cab , and the letter which warned sir henry against the moor .
i soon found briony lodge .
he whispered .
as we entered he made neither sound nor motion .
jot down the words , watson !
it 's worth quite a little fortune to any man who gets it , and i understand that there are more vacancies than there are men , so that the trustees are at their wits ' end what to do with the money .
it was only yesterday that the chance came .
i heard a cab drive up ,
is this true , barrymore ?
i might have known it !
it is a lovely evening , my dear watson ,
my practice had steadily increased , and as i happened to live at no very great distance from paddington station , i got a few patients from among the officials .
what o clock was it ?
but what is this written above them ?
but very few books would correspond with that .
with all these data you should be able to draw some just inference .
yes , i fancy we may have some company dropping in ,
he 'll be glad to see us , anyhow .
he cried ,
he drank more than ever , and he was less inclined for any sort of society .
i cried ,
and who instructed you , eh ?
we got off , paid our fare , and the trap rattled back on its way to leatherhead .
the bluff ,
wessex plate it ran sovs each h ft with sovs added for four and five year olds .
ham and eggs ,
i let him take them , therefore , from the hiding place , and so saved myself an infinity of trouble .
he followed me to my room , however , that night with a very grave face .
he pushed open a half closed door , and we both stood appalled at the sight before us .
your slippers are new ,
we can understand his taking an evening stroll , but the ground was damp and the night inclement .
you knew him , did you not ?
you got here first , did you ?
the fact that he is doing his own shopping looks as though it were his wife .
you will see how impossible it is for me to go to dartmoor .
to save an invalid trouble , inspector , mr culverton smith was good enough to give our signal by turning up the gas .
ah , i 'll tell you all about it .
if left to himself his instincts would have been either to return to king 's pyland or go over to mapleton .
that is better ,
and why no arrest ?
so much for afternoon walks !
he was likely , i thought , to fall into error through the over refinement of his logic , his preference for a subtle and bizarre explanation when a plainer and more commonplace one lay ready to his hand .
holmes groaned and resumed his restless meanderings .
to milverton 's housemaid .
until then good bye and good luck !
he was still suffering from this sudden disturbance of the quiet routine of his life .
i confess that i had not up to now taken a very serious view of the case , which had seemed to me rather grotesque and bizarre than dangerous .
you will perceive ,
and one at .
he gave me to understand that his house was some little distance off , in kensington , and he seemed to be in a great hurry , bustling me rapidly into the cab when we had descended to the street .
i 've been over a good part of the world since i left it , dr watson ,
there is mr frankland , of lafter hall , who is also an unknown factor , and there are one or two other neighbours .
is he your junior ?
that my judgment may survive the ordeal .
about two o clock the following morning , his daughter , who slept with her window open , heard a most fearful yell from that direction , but it was no unusual thing for him to bawl and shout when he was in drink , so no notice was taken .
as we turned away a child was screaming out of the house behind us .
that accounts for the hammer .
it is my business .
the coroner : what was the point upon which you and your father had this final quarrel ?
it was empty .
when our visitor was silent holmes stretched out his hand and took down letter s of his commonplace book .
it must be those wretched gipsies in the plantation .
experience ,
it has not excited much attention yet , except locally .
the lamp beat upon his face , and so intent was it and so still that it might have been that of a clear cut classical statue , a personification of alertness and expectation .
he had lost his listless expression , and again i saw an alert light of interest in his keen , deep set eyes .
so it appears ,
you think a man must be well to do if he smokes a seven shilling pipe ,
i never went .
i think , miss hunter , that we had better go in without you .
let us consider the problem in the light of pure reason .
at first the maid thought that young smith was already dead , but on pouring some water from the carafe over his forehead he opened his eyes for an instant .
have you a cab ?
then he took out the key , which was on the inside , and inspected that also .
you know , i suppose , that unless the matter is cleared up , mrs barclay , who is an old friend of yours , will in all probability be tried for murder .
as i entered the house the maid ran into the hall with a startled face .
these are the originals which could not safely be got out of the country .
when i was watching stapleton , cartwright was frequently watching you , so that i was able to keep my hand upon all the strings .
you will remember , watson ,
no , but this horrible man confessed to having been there , and the lascar was at the foot of the stairs .
he is , or was last night , at the fighting cock inn , about two miles from your park gate .
with my hair cut and a few other superficial changes i shall no doubt reappear at claridge 's to morrow as i was before this american stunt i beg your pardon , watson , my well of english seems to be permanently defiled before this american job came my way .
a shower of rain fell while we were in the train , and the heat was far less oppressive in croydon than in town .
he could have got several thousands for them very easily .
he clicked his heels together , raised his hand in a salute , and was gone .
but i 'll have a sovereign on with you , just to teach you not to be obstinate .
pericolo pericolo eh , what 's that , watson ?
yes , it was laid across the bush .
the soft light of a shaded lamp fell upon her as she leaned back in the basket chair , playing over her sweet , grave face , and tinting with a dull , metallic sparkle the rich coils of her luxuriant hair .
not until i have been to blackheath .
it is so long a chain , and yet every link rings true .
whether i have the shelter of your roof or of the village inn is , of course , for you to decide .
mr cunningham saw him from the bedroom window , and mr alec cunningham saw him from the back passage .
you are right ,
a most annoying business , sherlock ,
i promised my friend that i would say nothing of the matter , and a promise is a promise , but if i can really help her when so serious a charge is laid against her , and when her own mouth , poor darling , is closed by illness , then i think i am absolved from my promise .
her plump little white legs terminating in white socks and neat shoes with shining buckles , offered a strange contrast to the long shrivelled members of her companion .
i have to thank you for a good deal ,
you seem to have done the thing very completely .
the horse looks very fit and well .
i beg i implore that you will , dr watson !
you are taking a very great responsibility and putting yourself in a very false position by not making an absolutely clean breast of all that you know .
can you bear pain ?
he 'd ha ' found hisself in the station if we had n't been so took up .
i have here four letters which purport to come from the missing man .
he caught up a pen .
we locked every door on the inside and awaited developments .
the other dived down the hole , and i heard the sound of rending cloth as jones clutched at his skirts .
no doubt you are the gentleman whom he was expecting , ' they said .
i do not trouble you with my theories , for you asked me to furnish you only with facts .
of that i have no doubt at all .
they had driven him home a dozen times from serpentine mews , and knew all about him .
i will go when i have said my say .
have you heard nothing of the abduction of the only son of the duke of holdernesse ?
the writing on the wall was done with a man 's forefinger dipped in blood .
oh , my god !
i 'll say it at my own time , in my own way .
i think that i have seen enough now , miss stoner , and with your permission we shall walk out upon the lawn .
young overton 's face assumed the bothered look of the man who is more accustomed to using his muscles than his wits , but by degrees , with many repetitions and obscurities which i may omit from his narrative , he laid his strange story before us .
very good , sir if i must i must .
it was only because her health was weak , and the change might have done her harm .
i reached this one ,
nail scissors ,
the young lady came to london , then , and you renewed your acquaintance ?
he hated violence .
there was a saddlebag with spanner and oilcan , but no clue as to the owner .
this man , however , was leaning against the railings which bordered our field and was looking earnestly up .
what shall we do now ?
how came you there ?
having done that , we may drive back to our luncheon .
i do n't think that among all our cases i have known one where the motives are more obscure .
excellent .
fortunately we were not discouraged , and we determined to try again .
i know what is good when i see it , and i see it now .
this was quite too good to lose , watson .
your niece , when you had , as she thought , gone to your room , slipped down and talked to her lover through the window which leads into the stable lane .
but it was sarah 's fault , and may the curse of a broken man put a blight on her and set the blood rotting in her veins !
of course i knew better , but i could prove nothing .
that 's the worst of it , mr holmes , i do n't know .
a stranger then is still dogging us , just as a stranger dogged us in london .
it is paper of native indian manufacture ,
thank you .
then she stood by my side in silence for a bit , and then put up her hand and patted me on the shoulder .
have you kept in touch with the market while you have been out of work ?
i did not even knock when i reached it , but turned the handle and rushed into the passage .
and now for lunch , and then for norman neruda .
i have spent an instructive afternoon in the rector 's library , and have enlarged my knowledge by adding the fact that vermissa is a flourishing little town at the head of one of the best known coal and iron valleys in the united states .
heidegger 's tires were palmer ' s , leaving longitudinal stripes .
he pointed to what looked like a long , dark thorn stuck in the skin just above the ear .
right wing three quarter missing , indispensable to morrow .
the rest , gentlemen , you know for yourselves .
but the other day i had a notice that i was to start on my voyage within a week , and i determined that i would see her once before i left .
i should have thought those larger windows of the drawing room and dining room would have had more attractions for him .
if we can n't find where he went to , at least we are likely to get where he came from .
and now , brethren ,
it 's only a question of time now ,
of course i was pleased to hear this .
he took his chance , intending , no doubt , to make some excuse if he met anyone .
tiptoes !
journeys end with lovers ' meetings .
he can n't be very long , now .
i suppose the whole thing is not a vision and a touch of nerves ?
i can see him now , with yellow , pasty face , drooping lids , and pin point pupils , all huddled in a chair , the wreck and ruin of a noble man .
the telegram was a list of names and addresses :
if you cast your mind back to some of those narratives with which you have afflicted a long suffering public , you will recognize how often the grotesque has deepened into the criminal .
certainly .
look out that you do n't prick yourself .
a man is suspected of a crime months perhaps after it has been committed .
as he spoke , a woman 's shrill scream a scream which vibrated with a frenzy of horror burst from the thick , green clump of bushes in front of us .
trevor was the only man i knew , and that only through the accident of his bull terrier freezing on to my ankle one morning as i went down to chapel .
there was no doubt about it that he had disappeared .
i shall drive out in the park at five as usual , ' she said as she left him .
the greek interpreter
your conversation is most entertaining ,
in the bare assembly room the men were gathered round a long table .
read it up you really should .
but where is the old man ?
stop her !
it comes from the middle window .
james mccarthy was acquitted at the assizes on the strength of a number of objections which had been drawn out by holmes and submitted to the defending counsel .
holmes turned over the leaves of the book upon his knee .
now , i observe , ames , that there is a small piece of plaster at the angle of mr douglas 's jaw .
give it up , jack !
i assure you that i have not associated you with the crime , colonel ,
and why were you holding a candle to the window ?
putting out my hand i felt several coats hanging from the wall , and i understood that i was in a passage .
, of stepney , the source and origin of the busts .
irene adler is married ,
yes , it was the devil himself .
he would not do this , if he did not see that the boy had some swift means of escape .
where else could he have put it ?
that is more probable .
you 've questioned her long enough , you gentlemen , and now she is coming to her own room , just with her old theresa , to get the rest that she badly needs .
we owe you a deep apology , sir henry , for having exposed you to this fright .
you are aware , perhaps , that in this house all the servants sleep in the modern wing .
clair .
no , i could not have charlington hall for the summer .
well , you can imagine how hard it was to settle down to arduous work at pounds a week when i knew that i could earn as much in a day by smearing my face with a little paint , laying my cap on the ground , and sitting still .
surprise and satisfaction were both for an instant to be read upon his eager face , though when she glanced round to find out the cause of his silence he had become as demure as ever .
come on , my boy , and we shall see whether it will not fit the lock .
and i see you going down the same road , and i ask you what the end is to be .
but we had no trouble of any kind .
one night he lost even more heavily than usual .
when lord saltire 's disappearance was discovered , i at once called a roll of the whole establishment boys , masters , and servants .
she sat thinking for some time after i had spoken , and then , turning to me with a brisk air of resolution , she broke into a remarkable statement which i will condense for your benefit .
or of tokay ?
if he talks of a radiator it is a battleship , of an oil pump a cruiser , and so on .
there may possibly be some small point which might be suggestive .
it was not the father , however , who first discovered that the child had developed into the woman .
a sudden impulse came over him to enter , and see if they were indeed the proofs .
hardly that .
so frank took my wedding clothes and things and made a bundle of them , so that i should not be traced , and dropped them away somewhere where no one could find them .
mr sherlock holmes , i believe ?
so now !
oh , it 's like that , is it ?
i had the tea tray in my hand .
in order to have my case well rounded and complete , i have thrown away the life of my client .
for some time back mawson williams , the famous financial house , have been the guardians of securities which amount in the aggregate to a sum of considerably over a million sterling .
how can an english lady join in such a murderous affair ?
but there could be none .
my uncle elias emigrated to america when he was a young man and became a planter in florida , where he was reported to have done very well .
it was holmes .
if you look it up you will find that the san pedro colours are green and white , same as in the note , mr holmes .
the good impression which had been produced by his generosity and by his democratic manners was increased by a reputation gained for utter indifference to danger .
who locked up the plans that night ?
i shall communicate with you .
but the creature flapped and struggled , and out came my sister to know what was the matter .
i am sure that i shall say nothing of the kind .
one might have thought already that god 's curse hung heavy over a degenerate world , for there was an awesome hush and a feeling of vague expectancy in the sultry and stagnant air .
when he dragged himself here one night , weary and starving , with the warders hard at his heels , what could we do ?
there is , of course , the other woman , the drink , the push , the blow , the bruise , the sympathetic sister or landlady .
well , a pinkerton .
this night 's work would have been worth a tenner each to sam brown and me if the treasure had been there .
tell me , helen , have you ever heard anyone whistle in the dead of the night ?
at first , of course , he denied everything .
he was exceedingly kind , and it was through him that sir charles learned about my affairs .
but at least it is not difficult to find out a few particulars about the man 's age and professional career .
he cried .
we had plenty of money ourselves .
it may be so in this case , also .
we might be inclined to take it up , and at least look into it , if we could agree as to terms ' he tried to speak in a cool , careless way , but his eyes were shining with excitement and greed .
but his agents are numerous and splendidly organized .
finally :
b . were scrawled upon one side .
ask lady hilda trelawney hope if she will be kind enough to step up ,
it was a most necessary step .
for a dishonest one , obviously , or why should he drug his own stable boy ?
i spent the whole of yesterday evening in making enquiries entirely without avail .
foremost , of course , both in appearance and in guilt , was the formidable boss .
it would have been too horrible .
how of the window ?
his sister is everything in his life , he says .
then for the first time the horror of my situation came in its full force .
just a trifle more , i fancy , watson .
good bye ,
rain had fallen on the night before and we examined the lawn and the paths all round the house , but in vain .
she could tell us something if she would i am convinced of it .
well , now , we can reconstruct things on those lines .
he pointed around ,
you remember that the affair of the blue carbuncle , which appeared to be a mere whim at first , developed into a serious investigation .
there were forty carbuncles , two hundred and ten sapphires , sixty one agates , and a great quantity of beryls , onyxes , cats ' eyes , turquoises , and other stones , the very names of which i did not know at the time , though i have become more familiar with them since .
i should say almost unique .
from what you have told me i think that it is possible that graver issues hang from it than might at first sight appear .
how is the betting ?
it is your ears .
yes , we have the entries here .
it appeared to have been fitted up as a chemical laboratory .
i 've told you now how matters were , up to the time when i took over from sergeant wilson between three and four this morning .
this avenger , for some reason which i confess i am still at a loss to explain , took the dead man 's wedding ring .
it was entirely dropped .
it was nothing ,
how often ?
it is most refreshingly unusual .
well , then we must make a cross country journey to newhaven , and so over to dieppe .
holmes examined it for some time , and then , folding it carefully up , he placed it in his pocketbook .
in half the time which he had named , he had captured the housekeeper 's goodwill and was chatting with her as if he had known her for years .
and now , boys ,
but holmes was shaking his head , and his face was puzzled and expectant rather than joyous .
it was she , then , who wept in the night , and if she did so her husband must know it .
it seems hard on them for they 've done nothing .
come , my friend ,
the beast was savage and half starved .
and you were surprised to see him in swandam lane ?
his who is gone . that was after the execution of charles .
i can n't help thinking that your evidence is not complete .
any news , mr holmes , any news ?
what is the meaning of it , watson ?
if you are clever enough to bring destruction upon me , rest assured that i shall do as much to you .
she and mrs king , the cook .
you are not yourself .
no unusual thing for a doctor in practice .
we have it .
if he prefers to day we are perfectly ready .
on that the secretary gave it up as a bad job , and simply bargained with him that if he missed the last train he should rejoin him at halliday 's private hotel to which drebber answered that he would be back on the platform before eleven , and made his way out of the station .
a depleted bank account had caused me to postpone my holiday , and as to my companion , neither the country nor the sea presented the slightest attraction to him .
the most commonplace crime is often the most mysterious because it presents no new or special features from which deductions may be drawn .
mr holmes , mr holmes ,
i never had such a dress , sir ,
this press , as i have already explained , has got out of order , and we wish your advice upon the subject .
you shall hear it all in the train .
or more astonished , eh ?
now , gentlemen ,
cried mcmurdo .
it seems to me to have only one drawback , hopkins , and that is that it is intrinsically impossible .
holmes shrugged his shoulders as we walked away together .
he continued , as we made our way into the weighing enclosure , where only owners and their friends find admittance .
the organization is patent and public .
you first , small ,
there were four of them in a row , three of which were simply dirty , while the fourth was shuttered up .
he rose and showed a double radiating disc round the keyhole .
brother scanlan of lodge , vermissa .
so and so , of ballarat .
the fact was , of course , appreciated at king 's pyland , where the colonel 's training stable is situated .
to steady their nerves .
if anything had been needed to give an impetus to jack mcmurdo 's popularity among his fellows it would have been his arrest and acquittal .
that , however , i shall determine by a very simple test if we have an answer to our advertisement .
my dear watson , when i have exterminated that fourth egg i shall be ready to put you in touch with the whole situation .
i put on my hat and cloak , went down to the office , which is about half a mile from the house , and then returned , feeling very much easier .
when you get there , my dear von bork , i think you will be surprised at the welcome you will receive .
the servants deny having seen it before , but among the numerous curiosities in the house it is possible that it may have been overlooked .
who is this k .
what was he doing during that time ?
her honest father may not have observed these symptoms , but they were assuredly not thrown away upon the man who had won her affections .
it was not in front .
i 've heard of them before .
i told her that i was content to take her on her own terms , and i have been as good as my word .
oh , cyril is his name !
possess our souls in patience and make as little noise as possible ,
small threw it into the thames ,
they say it is the cry of the hound of the baskervilles .
he returns immaculate in the evening with the gloss still on his hat and his boots .
that morning had shown the figure upon the wall of his house , and the next day would be the last of the allotted time .
his eyes looked malignantly at me , and his gray whiskers bristled like those of an angry cat .
then that explains what the girl said .
i am sorry , madam , but i must repeat it .
he had himself , in reply to a question , confirmed stamford 's opinion upon that point .
if you have any influence with sir henry , take him away from a place which has always been fatal to his family .
it was too much that he should be taken to the grave without some token from the men whom he had robbed and befooled .
it was an indian cigar , of the variety which are rolled in rotterdam .
he had spent the whole afternoon at the manor house in consultation with his two colleagues , and returned about five with a ravenous appetite for a high tea which i had ordered for him .
they expect to get him every hour .
should it prove to be an interesting case , you would , i am sure , wish to follow it from the outset .
however , as you know , my habits are irregular , and such a feat means less to me than to most men .
my hardships were not so great as you imagined , though such trifling details must never interfere with the investigation of a case .
i call him mine , but really old toller , my groom , is the only man who can do anything with him .
that was the end of his visit , as you can imagine .
he passed the sign , and then seating himself opposite to the young man he looked at him steadily for some time , a look which was as steadily returned .
these documents are contained in a safe in the fellow 's study , and the study is the ante room of his bed chamber .
he had toiled painfully down the ravine , and on to this little elevation , in the vain hope of seeing some signs of water .
by jove , the doctor is coming back !
come , watson !
what does it mean ?
if you only realized
this man mcmurdo was a crook before ever he came here , and he 's a crook still .
and yet this new factor must surely arrest his attention and renew his interest .
here are four prints where the beast has been standing motionless .
you look remarkably robust .
he opened the gladstone bag as he spoke , and took out , to my astonishment , a very large bath sponge .
i only wish to verify my details in one way , which can very readily be done , and then i make my bow and return to london , leaving my results entirely at your service .
as we stepped into the carriage one of the stable lads held the door open for us .
now then one , two , three
excuse the admiration of a connoisseur ,
however , my friend , dr watson , knows nothing of this matter , and i should be none the worse for hearing the sequence of events once more .
you will now light the gas , watson , but you will be very careful that not for one instant shall it be more than half on .
that a man should draw up so important a document in so haphazard a fashion .
and the messenger of good fortune was none other than mr frankland , who was standing , gray whiskered and red faced , outside the gate of his garden , which opened on to the highroad along which i travelled .
attenta gives no sense .
the scissors were bent nail scissors .
we had , however , an aunt , my mother 's maiden sister , miss honoria westphail , who lives near harrow , and we were occasionally allowed to pay short visits at this lady 's house .
i have just had an answer to my american telegram .
he hurried at his top speed down baker street and along oxford street , until we had almost reached regent circus .
at least a dozen , by their grimed faces and the safety lanterns which they carried , proclaimed themselves miners .
yours faithfully , stanley hopkins .
you 'll interest me , right enough .
there !
that 's why we are going at night .
what was this william doing there ?
our reserve of bullion is much larger at present than is usually kept in a single branch office , and the directors have had misgivings upon the subject .
do n't you think , mr cubitt ,
naturally enough she ran down to tell the cook , and the two women with the coachman came up into the hall and listened to the dispute which was still raging .
it 's a double winged house , and the servants live on one side , the family on the other .
the road took a sweep to the south of the town , and continued in the opposite direction to that in which we started .
yes , sir i am afraid that i am a little late , but i am not quite my own master , you know .
it was a straight left against a slogging ruffian .
in each case there is evidence of a poisonous atmosphere .
and if i were you , mike scanlan , i would take a night off and keep clear of it .
at why he is repeating it for the third time .
the country inspector 's face had shown his intense amazement at the rapid and masterful progress of holmes 's investigation .
and when i have detailed those distant events and you have solved this mystery of the past , we shall meet once more in those rooms on baker street , where this , like so many other wonderful happenings , will find its end .
there 's only one ,
he intercepted mrs douglas , who was coming down the stairs .
i followed it so close that the nose of my horse was within a yard of his driver the whole way .
watson , you have never yet recognized my merits as a housekeeper .
on the upper floor , however , one of the bedroom doors was locked .
if he was in the hospital and yet not on the staff he could only have been a house surgeon or a house physician little more than a senior student .
not only was her first floor flat invaded at all hours by throngs of singular and often undesirable characters but her remarkable lodger showed an eccentricity and irregularity in his life which must have sorely tried her patience .
he was only a minute or so inside , and then i heard the key turn once more and he passed me and reentered the house .
very simply , sir ,
there are numerous small fry , but few who would handle so big an affair .
indeed , it seemed unnecessary to put so nice a bell pull there .
but now the spell had been upon him eight and forty hours , and he lay there , doubtless among the dregs of the docks , breathing in the poison or sleeping off the effects .
here , once again , was the mark of the bicycle , though nearly obliterated by the hoofs of cows .
and yet the amazing thing is that he must have been there all the time , for when i examined the door again in the morning , he had scrawled some more of his pictures under the line which i had already seen .
but if you think i could have hurt that woman , then you do n't know either me or her .
in the immediate neighbourhood , yes .
here he is ,
why did n't you tell her of her danger ?
wonderful !
the cabman may as well help me with my boxes .
oh , no , sir he was a little gentleman , with glasses , thin in the face , but very pleasant in his ways , for he was laughing all the time that he was talking .
with a dazed face the banker made out the required check .
the message was unnecessary for the set , cruel face of the man himself was looking over the servant 's shoulder .
look here , watson ,
the billiard marker and the other ?
his companion andrews was little more than a boy , frank faced and cheerful , with the breezy manner of one who is out for a holiday and means to enjoy every minute of it .
and the lady , i fancy , is miss stoner ,
it was the well marked print of a thumb .
twenty nine , i see .
i can make no sense of that .
he had a long talk with mr carruthers , who seemed much excited afterwards .
i assure you my cheeks flushed at the very thought .
that is objection no .
i had them washed out , and i only mentioned the matter to my wife afterwards .
here is the print of a foot in mould upon the sill .
jump in and we can talk it over while we drive .
i have had to release two of my prisoners , and there is no evidence against the other two .
but , dear me !
it is no ordinary one .
what is the result ?
you can do what you like , says i ,
say nothing to him about the horse .
dear me !
by train from waterloo .
it is quite too transparent , and it was a very bad compliment when you said that it was impossible for me to solve so simple a question .
our little place was very countrified , considering that it is so close to town .
he will be clever if he can drive where i cannot follow him .
it was evident to me that he thought he might bring trouble to the roof he was under , and that that was the motive which impelled him to go .
you 're not trying to scare me over this , are you ?
if it really annoys you , hilton , we might go and travel , you and i , and so avoid this nuisance .
he 's dead and her life is despaired of .
so it proved .
it had struck her , doubtless , that it might seem ungracious upon her part to be indifferent to a prize which had cost so much to win .
when left to himself , however , he would seldom produce any music or attempt any recognized air .
that there is a connection between the cyclist and the hall .
a small taper on the edge of the table shed a feeble light which sufficed to show me that he was fully dressed .
hill knows all these gentry , and he will give a name to him .
he gave a most dismal groan .
of all these varied cases , however , i cannot recall any which presented more singular features than that which was associated with the well known surrey family of the roylotts of stoke moran .
but he 's all on fire to start , colonel , so we had best go out if you are ready .
i 'll forget it .
i was weary of our little sitting room and gladly acquiesced .
it was thrown by a man who walked softly down the passage with a candle held in his hand .
i have seen it on him , and could swear to it .
justice !
the two men had stopped opposite the window .
would it be possible for me to inspect the train which contained the passenger who heard the thud of a fall in the fog ?
all else in the man his noble proportions , his fine features , and his frank bearing fitted in with that jovial , man to man manner which he affected .
light houses , my boy !
if it were not for the grave interests involved the affair up to this point would be insignificant .
i can give you it at once .
i never saw a devonshire man who did not swear by his county ,
sure i spoke for myself only ,
mr williamson was the name of the tenant .
gregson and lestrade will be wild about his death ,
at the advice of our fathers to solicit the hand of your daughter for whichever of us may seem good to you and to her .
there is a delightful freshness about you , watson , which makes it a pleasure to exercise any small powers which i possess at your expense .
give it time .
so engrossed was he with his occupation that he appeared to have forgotten our presence , for he chattered away to himself under his breath the whole time , keeping up a running fire of exclamations , groans , whistles , and little cries suggestive of encouragement and of hope .
then they came over and made sure that i was securely bound .
when did it happen , doctor ?
it is my doing , sir henry all mine .
this was an unexpected piece of luck .
all of it was excellent advice but i do n't insist , so long as you are here when i need you .
there 's a brougham waiting for us , watson ,
i was his best man .
it is true that i had thrown a light upon the fate of brunton , but now i had to ascertain how that fate had come upon him , and what part had been played in the matter by the woman who had disappeared .
whom do you suspect ?
she was horribly wounded , and the side of her face was red with blood .
i thought that , perhaps , if you had nothing particular on hand , you might care to assist us in a most remarkable case , which occurred only last night at hampstead .
the old man evidently thought that his son was exaggerating in his description of one or two trivial feats which i had performed .
meanwhile , your arrangement was rather upset by the fact that you had yourself fallen in love with the lady .
my difficulty is the more formidable of the two , for i think that we shall very shortly get an explanation of yours , while mine may remain forever a mystery .
it may have been his guilty conscience , it may have been the reputation of the pinkerton organization , it may have been the knowledge that great , rich corporations had set themselves the task of clearing out the scowrers but , whatever his reason , his actions were those of a man who is preparing for the worst .
yes , there were two of them .
he was plainly but neatly dressed , and his age , i should judge , would be nearer forty than thirty .
how can you prove that ?
if i may give an opinion ,
upper swandam lane is a vile alley lurking behind the high wharves which line the north side of the river to the east of london bridge .
that this matter is a mistake , and that the parcel was never meant for me at all .
ay , the sooner the better .
you had , then , been sitting with your feet outstretched to the fire , which a man would hardly do even in so wet a june as this if he were in his full health .
but i watched the criminal news , knowing that sooner or later i should get him .
brown , heavy clouds were drifting across the sky , and it was hard to see more than a stone cast .
what do you make of these ?
i protest against that ,
it gave even my hardened nerves a shudder to look at it .
he is now in his fifth year , and has brought in turn each of the prizes of the turf to colonel ross , his fortunate owner .
he smiled at my vehemence .
i say into the cab , but i soon became doubtful as to whether it was not a carriage in which i found myself .
the old man made a little run towards the door , but , as athelney jones put his broad back up against it , he recognized the uselessness of resistance .
he was a silent , precise man with a dour nature and a hard aberdonian accent .
just step into this room and wait there for a few minutes .
well , surely his own wife ought to know where he is ,
then i described how his first impulse had been to lead him back to king 's pyland , and how the devil had shown him how he could hide the horse until the race was over , and how he had led it back and concealed it at mapleton .
you are afraid of something ?
you sat in front of his writing desk ?
then the two gentlemen passed us , walking , and we followed down baker street and along
whatever we say , even what we think , seems to go back to that man mcginty .
through the growing gloom there pulsed the red glow of the furnaces on the sides of the hills .
so i understand .
what do you mean , then ?
why , sir , you 've got me the very evidence i want ,
a double band of white shells were strung round the centre of it .
no but i am acting for him .
because it is done by a man who cannot afford to fail , one whose whole unique position depends upon the fact that all he does must succeed .
lyon place , camberwell .
come and sit down .
a number twelve shoe , i should say .
it was this letter , if you can call it a letter , which reached me this morning .
from what i have seen of the lady she seems indeed to be on a very different level to your majesty ,
the door opened .
he knew , no doubt , that there was some screw loose , but he was not in our secrets .
do n't promise too much , mr theorist , do n't promise too much !
his letters were full of allusions to the major .
when i was a youngster i have opened it myself with the key of the box room cupboard .
as we peered from the darkened sitting room of the lodging house , one more dim light glimmered high up through the obscurity .
he saw them as soon as they perceived him , and his military challenge of who goes there ? rang through the silent ravine .
his tangled beard , grizzled hair , and outstanding , drooping eyebrows combined to give an air of dignity and power to his appearance , but his face was of an ashen white , while his lips and the corners of his nostrils were tinged with a shade of blue .
i have no doubt that i shall find you a situation .
in every direction the great snow capped peaks hemmed them in , peeping over each other 's shoulders to the far horizon .
he wrung his hands in an agony of apprehension , and swayed backward and forward in his chair .
he jerked his thumb upward to signify the coining plant .
it appeared that within a very few minutes of our leaving , an english lady had arrived who was in the last stage of consumption .
single handed , and with his limited knowledge of the mountains which surrounded the settlement , he knew that he was powerless .
i can n't have my work interrupted like this .
let me out !
what a blind beetle i have been !
the fellow is off his head , in my opinion .
sherlock holmes was not disappointed in his expectations .
you may remember how the affair of the gloria scott , and my conversation with the unhappy man whose fate i told you of , first turned my attention in the direction of the profession which has become my life 's work .
i can take a joke with the best , mr holmes , but they 've got a bit over the mark this time .
there used to be a very old one over yonder but it was struck by lightning ten years ago , and we cut down the stump .
you will help best by doing what you are told .
we could , of course , have gone in and taken him , but it amused me to make him reveal himself .
i at once concluded that straker was leading a double life , and keeping a second establishment .
she was brown with the dust and draped with the cobwebs which had come from the walls of her hiding place .
my companion bowed .
cried the little girl gleefully , pointing at their ill omened forms , and clapping her hands to make them rise .
it was very superficial , my dear watson , i assure you .
his voice , sir i knew his voice , which is kind o thick and foggy .
you can reconstruct what occurred .
suddenly it ceased , and i heard voices , and a scuffle , with the sound of blows .
now , sir , i must ask you more particularly what this document is , and why its disappearance should have such momentous consequences ?
tell me , ' i asked , ' did your butler ever ask you such a question ?
he and i have worked together before .
we will eliminate bradshaw .
i had long determined that he should have a show for his life if he chose to take advantage of it .
sometimes i have thought that it was merely the wild talk of delirium , sometimes that it may have referred to some band of people , perhaps to these very gipsies in the plantation .
you came down here to ask me whom i suspected .
now i am aware that he is not only one of the heads of the medical school of the university , but a thinker of european reputation in more than one branch of science .
for a moment he had staggered and nearly fallen , but the brandy brought a tinge of colour into his cheeks , and he sat staring with frightened eyes at his accuser .
this is all there is .
you have formed some conclusion ?
a flush stole over miss sutherland 's face , and she picked nervously at the fringe of her jacket .
so it could not be he who climbed over roofs and through trap doors .
answer me frankly , ' he continued , ' for you will find it to your interest to do so .
impossible !
he is coming ,
as my speech surely shows you , mr altamont of chicago had no existence in fact .
it is quite bright , but there is no light from within , i think .
my voice trembled as i recalled the pains and the pride with which i had composed them .
i wish you , therefore , to make restitution .
i would not have missed the investigation for anything .
i have travelled across rajpootana that i might seek the shelter of the fort at agra .
he was thin and worn , but clear and alert , his keen face bronzed by the sun and roughened by the wind .
there is a trap door at the back of that building , near the corner of paul 's wharf , which could tell some strange tales of what has passed through it upon the moonless nights .
from a grove upon our left i could already see the high chimneys and the flag staff which marked the squire 's dwelling .
first of all about the test telegram , which you sent from london in order to make sure that barrymore was really here .
that some little time ago when i read you the passage in one of poe 's sketches in which a close reasoner follows the unspoken thoughts of his companion , you were inclined to treat the matter as a mere tour de force of the author .
it was not a common thing for him to receive letters , for his bills were all paid in ready money , and he had no friends of any sort .
the whole steep slope was covered with gray circular rings of stone , a score of them at least .
or to cut your hair quite short before you come to us ?
very fine very handsome indeed , mr holmes .
but i have done my duty now and i will say no more .
he cried with many chuckles .
this villain 's policy was to murder , on one pretext or another , every man who showed such promise that he might in time come to be a dangerous rival .
the absence of the latter means nothing , though its presence may mean everything ,
yet in some ways i feel that yesterday has not been wasted .
there only remained a single bust the reading one and the pearl must be there .
now , if it had been the old major i would have swung for him with a light heart .
the train has been broken up before now , and the carriages redistributed .
you will wring no more hearts as you wrung mine .
at eleven o clock next morning my friend and i were walking up the famous yew avenue of holdernesse hall .
to act , sherlock to act !
i have sent a report from grimpen to princetown as to the death of selden .
you observe the spatulate finger ends , watson , which is common to both professions ?
his purse contained two pounds fifteen .
i hold it , therefore , to be certain that he does know who these men are , and that for reasons of his own he suppresses it .
phelps gave a groan .
my humble name and title did not appear to impress mr culverton smith .
the sun had long set , but one blood red gash like an open wound lay low in the distant west .
well , you know , after a crime of this sort we are very careful to keep things in their position .
from his knowledge of our rooms and of my appearance , as well as from his general conduct , i am inclined to think that stapleton 's career of crime has been by no means limited to this single baskerville affair .
he has escaped !
she has hardly been away from her home for a day during that time .
what 's the game now ?
into this hansom you will jump , and you will drive to the strand end of the lowther arcade , handing the address to the cabman upon a slip of paper , with a request that he will not throw it away .
something brown was rolling and tossing among the green sedges .
pray proceed .
or maybe , mr baldwin , you will take a turn down the street with me .
the nocturnal visitor was a young man , frail and thin , with a black moustache , which intensified the deadly pallor of his face .
then i remembered that fordingham was in hampshire , and that this mr beddoes , whom the seaman had gone to visit and presumably to blackmail , had also been mentioned as living in hampshire .
his slow , limping step and bowed shoulders gave the appearance of decrepitude , and yet his hard , deep lined , craggy features , and his enormous limbs showed that he was possessed of unusual strength of body and of character .
indeed ,
large , masculine feet they were , with peculiarly long , sharp toes .
suddenly this morning it occurred to me that you were the man to advise me , so i have hurried to you now , and i place myself unreservedly in your hands .
and yet he was absolutely incapable of working out the practical points which must be gone into before a case could be laid before a judge or jury .
i took the tattered object in my hands and turned it over rather ruefully .
absolutely .
to the curious incident of the dog in the night time .
cried mcmurdo , springing to his feet .
i may add that miss burnet 's age and character make it certain that my first idea that there might be a love interest in our story is out of the question .
any other point , watson ?
i cried .
not drawn towards drink , eh ?
you did not write this ?
my dear sir ,
but his leavetaking was cut short in a very unexpected fashion .
you would have made an actor , and a rare one .
i am sure that it is best .
she must be a heartless creature to sit laughing at some jest within a few hours of her husband 's murder .
do you suppose that ted baldwin has ever forgiven us ?
where the latter street turns into knight 's place , toby ceased to advance , but began to run backwards and forwards with one ear cocked and the other drooping , the very picture of canine indecision .
i left it with my cigarette box and my stick , and i walked along the pathway , moriarty still at my heels .
but you have n't helped me .
the door of briony lodge was open , and an elderly woman stood upon the steps .
quite so .
i arrested the wrong man to make him believe that our eyes were off him .
you have heard something , mr holmes you have learned something !
then i can talk freely of what i know and of what i advise should be done .
hence those vows of fidelity exacted upon a testament , and hence also the allusions to a possibility of something happening on the very morning of the wedding .
as he came into the circle of dim light which enables me to see him more clearly i was thrilled with horror at his appearance .
but why should any criminal wish to ring the bell ?
it was the sheet upon which i had scrawled the enigmatic message .
i was up betimes in the morning , but holmes was afoot earlier still , for i saw him as i dressed , coming up the drive .
make a move ?
there was no use dividing it at present , for if gems of such value were found upon us it would cause suspicion , and there was no privacy in the fort nor any place where we could keep them .
it was a little past seven before we reached the westminster wharf , and found our launch awaiting us .
oh , if you find your own cases more interesting than mine
it would have killed my poor wife had he been taken again .
head keeper hudson , we believe , has been now told to receive all orders for fly paper and for preservation of your hen pheasant 's life .
it seems a pity , but i have done what i could .
holmes alone could rise superior to petty influences .
you do n't use bars , then ?
, mr jeremiah hayling , aged twenty six , a hydraulic engineer .
by its light you saw that some terrible incident had occurred ?
my dear fellow ,
she cast a look of the deepest disdain in his direction .
listen , and see that i do you no injustice .
then take the treaty and lock it up there .
a thick , black cloud swirled before my eyes , and my mind told me that in this cloud , unseen as yet , but about to spring out upon my appalled senses , lurked all that was vaguely horrible , all that was monstrous and inconceivably wicked in the universe .
if you report yourselves on monday , it will be time enough .
breadth of view , my dear mr mac , is one of the essentials of our profession .
no one can blame you .
is there nothing else ?
we 're well up with the times in sussex .
i locked up the papers first .
undoubtedly .
it is a peculiarly desolate plain .
i should think i did notice them , seeing that i had to prop him up me and murcher between us .
no , indeed ,
well , all i can say is that if there 's any secret here it is not my secret , and i am not the man to give it away .
it 's best this way , jack ,
it 's hard to say his age .
it was indeed this attitude upon the part of my friend and certainly not any lack of interesting material which has caused me of late years to lay very few of my records before the public .
i should have put him at about thirty , though he was really some years older .
by my old enemies , watson .
he has been giving me a sketch of the methods by which he avoided the english police and kept himself informed of our movements .
he was deeply impressed with the curse which hung over the family , and when this tragedy came i naturally felt that there must be some grounds for the fears which he had expressed .
had he a whip in his hand ?
he had taken this legend which i have read you exceedingly to heart so much so that , although he would walk in his own grounds , nothing would induce him to go out upon the moor at night .
contagious by touch , watson that 's it , by touch .
yes , it did .
the cabinet awaits your final report with the utmost anxiety .
where are they ?
that you and she were now lying blanched skeletons upon the sierra blanco , than that you should put your weak wills against the orders of the holy four !
full of trepidation for he knew that such a visit boded him little good ferrier ran to the door to greet the mormon chief .
holmes shook his finger at the inspector .
yes , i know all that you saw .
john rance ,
that was our first idea .
if you leave , you forfeit your whole position forever .
if you approach me , watson , i shall order you out of the house .
have you heard the de reszkes ?
i could n't stand it , and the doctor was as white as a sheet .
he took from his pocket the various slips of the dancing men .
but we 'll search the house and make sure .
say , mcmurdo ,
the police are already upstairs .
but why , mr holmes , why ?
lestrade , however , shook his head like a man who is only half convinced .
his face became radiant .
cried holmes .
i am sorry that miss sutherland has troubled you about this little matter , for i think it is far better not to wash linen of the sort in public .
i suppose i should have knocked .
he stopped when he saw us , and then came on again .
he murmured ,
stern facts here , no room for theories .
i go into a case to help the ends of justice and the work of the police .
cried holmes .
in the dim light i saw his head thrown forward , his whole attitude rigid with attention .
how do you deduce that ?
for a minute or two we were all on our knees retrieving stray cigarettes from impossible places .
for two days after my arrival at the copper beeches my life was very quiet on the third , mrs rucastle came down just after breakfast and whispered something to her husband .
can you see those tracks upon the path ?
she was very straight about it , was elsie .
he slapped me on the shoulder with a sudden burst of hilarity .
the face of our unpleasant little visitor turned as white as his neckcloth .
the lamp still stood upon the floor where i had placed it when examining the trough .
my luggage was waiting for me , and i had no difficulty in finding the carriage which holmes had indicated , the less so as it was the only one in the train which was marked engaged . my only source of anxiety now was the non appearance of holmes .
it would not affect me in the case of a stranger .
well , young man , i can n't call your face to mind .
we are now going to interview lord holdhurst , the cabinet minister and future premier of england .
he held out his hand to baldwin .
i simply wish to hear your real , real opinion .
only one that we know of , major sholto , of his own regiment , the th bombay infantry .
that is what you may expect to see when i follow you .
the way you kept on my trail was a caution .
for half an hour i sat with straining ears .
i had called upon my friend sherlock holmes upon the second morning after christmas , with the intention of wishing him the compliments of the season .
i heard his wife tell mrs rucastle that she could do nothing with him .
there is something tropical and exotic about her which forms a singular contrast to her cool and unemotional brother .
we will suppose that this couple are united by the bonds of a guilty love , and that they have determined to get rid of the man who stands between them .
when did she vanish , then ?
my way ran down a dried up watercourse , which we hoped would screen me from the enemy 's sentries but as i crept round the corner of it i walked right into six of them , who were crouching down in the dark waiting for me .
there is nothing in that .
if you want me for the trial , my address and that of watson will be somewhere in norway i 'll send particulars later .
altamont .
it is clear from what that surly fellow said that there are others besides ourselves who are anxious about the matter , and i should
can you see them in your mind 's eye ?
the fellow left me last week , and i 've heard nothing of him since .
if you know anything , you can surely say it without all this tomfoolery .
an hour and half had elapsed before the inspector returned alone .
a logician could infer the possibility of an atlantic or a niagara without having seen or heard of one or the other .
in either case the time for suppression is past , and every word which i tell you is the naked truth , and this i swear as i hope for mercy .
he certainly acted on very short notice .
we stagnate in the provinces .
half dazed , i went into the station and asked about the morning train .
miss brenda tregennis had been a very beautiful girl , though now verging upon middle age .
we had pulled up in front of a large villa which stood within its own grounds .
the lady 's charming personality must not be permitted to warp our judgment .
i could distinguish the outline of an instep where the wet foot had been placed in coming in .
education never ends , watson .
but the sikh knows the englishman , and the englishman knows the sikh .
when the fellow comes speak to him in an ordinary way .
he was a remarkably handsome man , dark , aquiline , and moustached evidently the man of whom i had heard .
well , you certainly touched upon rather a tender point .
ah , poor old chap , he clings to any straw !
surely ,
is it right ?
your name is made , but i have still to make mine .
i would suggest that you return to norfolk , that you keep a keen lookout , and that you take an exact copy of any fresh dancing men which may appear .
the facts are only two days old .
murder at mawson williams 's .
i thought nothing of it at the time .
hitherto his orgies had always been confined to one day , and he had come back , twitching and shattered , in the evening .
then he gave a deep groan and with an impatient gesture he put out the light .
i suppose that you have no objection to my collaborating with you , mr baynes ?
you must drop everything , sherlock .
keep your revolver near you night and day , and never relax your precautions .
and i should be very glad if he would take the matter up , though of course i must use the official police as well .
all i had to do then was to do as much for stangerson , and so pay off john ferrier 's debt .
he explained in the early hours of the morning as we sat over a glass of whisky and soda in baker street ,
i could not save dunn and menzies , for i did not know enough but i will see that their murderers are hanged .
i 'll never get the sight of that room out of my mind so long as i live .
he left us a list of the securities he was taking , and he swore that he would come back with his honour cleared , and that none who had trusted him would suffer .
he can save me only he !
it was not until close upon six o'clock that i found myself free and was able to spring into a hansom and drive to baker street , half afraid that i might be too late to assist at the d nouement of the little mystery .
and what the errand is even a county constable could guess .
if this woman is in truth his wife , where does mrs laura lyons come in ?
it is a fair argument that wherever no .
it is of no consequence to us which is the correct solution .
for a minute i stood there with the paper in my hands thinking out the meaning of this curt message .
the sooner we get to work the better .
from waterloo .
that is usually a product of higher education .
they do n't seem to have taken any very particular stock of him but still the porter , the clerk , and the chambermaid are all agreed that this about covers the points .
well , you are their employer , ai n't you ?
yesterday a lady , who has been known as mme .
that 's all i know , and i say again that if i killed black peter , the law should give me thanks , for i saved them the price of a hempen rope .
i will wait for you here if you will drive out again .
how do you prove that ?
roared the prize fighter .
no , a woman 's , and a woman of rare character .
my client is outside in a four wheeler .
imagine , then , my thrill of terror when last night , as i lay awake , thinking over her terrible fate , i suddenly heard in the silence of the night the low whistle which had been the herald of her own death .
the road is an important highway , and there are usually people there .
then mother 's a deader too ,
the old devil left a note for us to say that he had rather be a free crossing sweeper in new york than a large mine owner under the power of a ring of blackmailers .
he is a man of no physical courage , as they are well aware from their experience the other night .
i at once went very carefully round it to observe if there were any traces in the snow which might help me .
you must yourself have formed some theory which will explain the facts to which we have listened .
i had risen from my seat and was knocking out the ashes of my pipe when i suddenly heard the clang of the bell .
after a short , final struggle he was hoisted , still bound hand and foot , into the spare seat of the little car .
well , you put the case strongly ,
it 's been owing him a long time , and he 'll get it full and proper .
however , all my troubles will be over on saturday .
violence of temper approaching to mania has been hereditary in the men of the family , and in my stepfather 's case it had , i believe , been intensified by his long residence in the tropics .
why should these pages be stained by further crimes ?
you have thrown out hints here , and hints there , and seem to know more than we do , but the time has come when we feel that we have a right to ask you straight how much you do know of the business .
and that is why i loathe him so .
they are disguised hands , except the letter ,
you have done me a great service by recovering my horse .
that point is the request made by pinner that you should not resign your place , but should leave the manager of this important business in the full expectation that a mr hall pycroft , whom he had never seen , was about to enter the office upon the monday morning .
the man who held out against the church vanished away , and none knew whither he had gone or what had befallen him .
the inspector 's eyes grew abstracted .
never mind your usual petty puzzles of the police court .
a cunning preparation of it ,
he cut deep , and yet i just undercut him .
the enormously thick walls and tiny windows of this part had in the last century driven the family into building the new wing , and the old one was used now as a store house and a cellar , when it was used at all .
what is the name of this obliging youth ?
from where i stood i could hear everything , and i know that you have learned the truth .
he who will come . that was charles the second , whose advent was already foreseen .
when i returned he was gone .
just the word , nothing more .
he took particular care that sir henry did not make love to her , as you have yourself observed .
we are at a loss as to how he came into the empty house indeed , the whole affair is a puzzler .
no , sir , my son .
it 's about five in the morning , you know , that suicides are most common .
as he approached , he recognized him as a mormon named cowper , to whom he had rendered services at different times .
a terrible change came over the woman 's face as i asked the question .
i 'll fix the old devil !
there was no answer .
from the first , two facts were very obvious to me , the one that the lady had been quite willing to undergo the wedding ceremony , the other that she had repented of it within a few minutes of returning home .
i 'll tell it ye from the beginning ,
i will fly , mr holmes .
we scrambled from rock to rock , until in a few moments we had made our way to a point from which we could see the front door of the inn .
just opposite the seymour street office they have taken up the pavement and thrown up some earth which lies in such a way that it is difficult to avoid treading in it in entering .
the facts , as i read them , are something like this : this woman was married in america .
he raised his right hand to his right eyebrow .
the servant seemed surprised at so late a visitor .
but why should he come back to the house after leaving it ?
in return for all this we asked but one condition : that was , that you should embrace the true faith , and conform in every way to its usages .
where had she been during that strange expedition ?
he whined incessantly .
it is in the personal column of the morning post , and dates , as you see , some weeks back : ' a marriage has been arranged , ' it says , ' and will , if rumour is correct , very shortly take place , between lord robert st .
when he reached my sister 's side she was unconscious , and though he poured brandy down her throat and sent for medical aid from the village , all efforts were in vain , for she slowly sank and died without having recovered her consciousness .
i 've had three months of it .
below it stated that a guard of police , armed with winchester rifles , had been requisitioned for the defense of the office .
it is true that he started home at an hour which should have brought him to westminster before the time when the crime was discovered , but his own explanation that he had walked part of the way seemed probable enough in view of the fineness of the night .
he has been known to drive his wife and daughter out of doors in the middle of the night and flog them through the park until the whole village outside the gates was aroused by their screams
i took a step forward .
there is nothing more stimulating than a case where everything goes against you .
not for the world , my dear watson .
she stood grandly defiant , a queenly figure , her eyes fixed upon his as if she would read his very soul .
oh , i would not venture to say , sir i do n't believe there is any gentleman in this university who is capable of profiting by such an action .
how could they have got on to steiner ?
it may give him a sleepless night .
leave your horses below and we will await you here ,
no , the debt is not to me .
holmes walked slowly and thoughtfully among the flower plots and along the path before we entered the porch .
there is a strong presumption that the person whom mccarthy expected to meet him at boscombe pool was someone who had been in australia .
the first was an enormous sikh , with a black beard which swept nearly down to his cummerbund .
you know what that is ?
just as she reached the bottom of the stair mr barker had rushed out of the study .
good heavens !
then he followed a pathway through the wood until he came to the highroad , where all traces were lost .
the whole proceeding is absolutely illegal and outrageous .
she had learned something of the death of the convict , and she knew that the hound was being kept in the outhouse on the evening that sir henry was coming to dinner .
we had broken suddenly into a lovely glade of greensward surrounded by ancient trees .
now , dr sterndale , how do you justify such conduct , and what were the motives for your actions ?
they would have told you every name , from the master to the scullery maid .
you will remember , lestrade , the sensation caused by the disappearance of this valuable jewel and the vain efforts of the london police to recover it .
the lake there is eight feet deep , and you can imagine our feelings when we saw that the trail of the poor demented girl came to an end at the edge of it .
everything is known , colonel walter ,
i do n't know that there is anything else .
my cab 's at the door .
simon , i think that i have nearly all my data .
twice my boy has asked her to marry him , for he loves her devotedly , but each time she has refused him .
how far from the body ?
it was on his track , and not upon the convict ' s , that frankland had stumbled .
leave utah !
your skill has indeed exceeded all that i have heard of it .
i brought him his boots when he went for the police .
hers had been cut off , very possibly in some illness through which she has passed , and so , of course , yours had to be sacrificed also .
but if fairbairn shows his face here again i 'll send you one of his ears for a keepsake .
the man who entered was young , some two and twenty at the outside , well groomed and trimly clad , with something of refinement and delicacy in his bearing .
it was my brother mycroft .
as to who this prisoner is , i have no doubt that it is the daughter , miss alice rucastle , if i remember right , who was said to have gone to america .
perhaps you would not mind telling me if your suspicions point in any particular direction ?
relieved , too , i fancy !
but we can n't all be .
i dare say he goes to coombe tracey for what he wants .
therefore , it had been put on during the night .
it was easy to see that she was passionately devoted both to her husband and to her little son .
not one instant , my dear mr mac .
he gasped .
i am a london university man , you know , and i am sure that you will not think that i am unduly singing my own praises if i say that my student career was considered by my professors to be a very promising one .
i did it , mr holmes !
suddenly a door opened at the other end of the passage , and a long , golden bar of light shot out in our direction .
i should guess that to be the something hunt , the local hunt to whose members he has possibly given some surgical assistance , and which has made him a small presentation in return .
there was a main gateway of lichen studded stone , each side pillar surmounted by mouldering heraldic emblems , but besides this central carriage drive i observed several points where there were gaps in the hedge and paths leading through them .
the cloud was lifted forever from the valley .
you might start a paper on those lines .
you think then , definitely , that barker and mrs douglas are guilty of the murder ?
but i came here in answer to a letter from mrs hilton cubitt .
carere has blurred my recollection of baskerville hall .
burglary !
you have heard me speak of professor moriarty ?
in a few minutes i had written my note , paid whitney 's bill , led him out to the cab , and seen him driven through the darkness .
no , i see nothing .
i beg that you will state your business , sir , my time is of value .
you may find worse dangers than the english law , or even than your enemies from america .
and then suddenly in the silence i heard a sound which sent my heart into my mouth .
the young man winced .
it is a dreary , fever stricken place , and all beyond our little clearings was infested with wild cannibal natives , who were ready enough to blow a poisoned dart at us if they saw a chance .
what became of him ?
and so mr athelney jones will think .
at that instant , to give point to his words , the carriage came round to the door .
i am a married man , and have been so for three years .
the next thing heard of him was when his dead body was discovered by a plate layer named mason , just outside aldgate station on the underground system in london .
holmes rose and tossed the end of his cigarette into the grate .
why , it 's beppo .
you may not be aware that the deduction of a man 's age from his writing is one which been has brought to considerable accuracy by experts .
well , of course miss morstan too .
holmes whispered .
and if we take this as a working hypothesis we have a fresh basis from which to start our construction of this unknown visitor .
he fires a sheet of this off every day ,
no , sir , it crumbled all to bits after we moved it .
not invisible but unnoticed , watson .
you are looking for a situation , miss ?
the reasoner drew his conclusions from the actions of the man whom he observed .
do n't tell me that you 're marvin of the chicago central !
if the fresh facts which come to our knowledge all fit themselves into the scheme , then our hypothesis may gradually become a solution .
he cried .
you really are an automaton , a calculating machine !
all was quiet inside , so i went into the room where the light was a burnin ' .
mrs lyons had resumed her seat .
our difference of opinion on this subject went so far that i thought it best to set up rooms for myself : so i left pondicherry lodge , taking the old khitmutgar and williams with me .
mrs hudson has been knocked up , she retorted upon me , and i on you .
see how the irrepressible greek e will break out , and see the twirl of the final s .
do you imagine it would prevent me from doing my duty to so old a friend ?
mr hugo oberstein , of caulfield gardens , had become my objective .
but , after what we have heard i do n't feel as if i could give the man up , so there is an end of it .
nay , he was bringing home the goose as a peace offering to his wife .
i was only testing you , and you ring true every time .
oh , that was it , was it ?
i handed him my pouch , and he seated himself opposite to me and smoked for some time in silence .
our hope was that , by taking train , we might get to beckenham as soon or sooner than the carriage .
well , to tell the truth , i saw then the first signs that i had ever seen that her temper was just a little sharp .
would you please remain in the room ?
postmark , london , s .
then , good bye , mr jabez wilson , and let me congratulate you once more on the important position which you have been fortunate enough to gain .
no wonder the poor devil of a convict ran and screamed , even as our friend did , and as we ourselves might have done , when he saw such a creature bounding through the darkness of the moor upon his track .
i am much mistaken if we do not hear from her before many days are past .
the professional shook his head over our confessed burglary .
well , they 've got him , that 's all .
you came back by an unexpected way , and so he had no warning until you were at the very door .
he always carried it with him .
i did n't quite like that , mr holmes .
on my remarking that i was constantly in the habit of doing the same thing you expressed incredulity .
who is he ?
oh , mr holmes , i would cut off my right hand before i gave him a moment of sorrow !
i told my brother last night that i should bring some friends .
this way , mr holmes , if you please !
might i trouble you for a match ?
it was a linen bag which contained within it a mass of old rusted and discolored metal and several dull colored pieces of pebble or glass .
sir james died this morning .
i just made up my mind to run away and explain afterwards .
i did exactly what he indicated , and waited until the other clerks had departed .
we shall take it and cross the river .
well , sir ?
among other things , he found that the height of the building was seventy four feet , but on adding together the heights of all the separate rooms , and making every allowance for the space between , which he ascertained by borings , he could not bring the total to more than seventy feet .
you mean the west country bankers ,
your salary with me , madam , would commence at pounds a year .
in the far corner was a smithy , where a grimy lad was at work .
but since , as you said just now , there has been no crime committed , and no harm done save the loss of a goose , all this seems to be rather a waste of energy .
for a moment the presentiment of death laid its cold hand upon the manager 's heart .
but what is the good of all these vague theories ,
now , you rascal , do you deny that it is a signal ?
he must have entered through the door .
it was in the course of them that i contracted this complaint .
and yet i have made no use of it myself , so blind and foolish a thing is avarice .
i have never seen a man run so fast as that little merchant .
there was romance .
they were in the passage outside the room .
suddenly my eyes caught the glint of a light .
not a statesman with the honorable record of lord holdhurst ?
it is something quite in your line .
i came to you for you are the one man that would advise me .
well , i do n't think that is very hard to explain .
holmes looked thoughtful .
then i rushed up the stairs , only to find two other rooms empty and deserted at the top .
now you will find the carriage waiting , and my friend will see you on your way .
holmes picked up the key , and looked at it for an instant , then he handed it back .
your life may depend upon your compliance .
an answer had arrived to holmes 's telegram before our surrey officer had returned .
i was sure that you would trust me , ' she cried , with a great sigh of relief .
at one side of the coronet was a cracked edge , where a corner holding three gems had been torn away .
no , i hardly think that it would help me ,
there is so much red tape in these matters .
but why could he not tell you this ?
as to the other denizens of the old building , it will suffice out of a large household to mention the prim , respectable , and capable ames , and mrs allen , a buxom and cheerful person , who relieved the lady of some of her household cares .
then there were a few footmarks , and the tire reappeared once more .
his thoughts , his emotions , his passions , all were exaggerated and monstrous .
an agitated german waiter had appeared upon the scene .
then he could hope when the deed was done to slip quickly from the window , to wade the moat , and to get away at his leisure .
this is worse than death , for it means disgrace as well .
if my future were black , it was better surely to face it like a man than to attempt to brighten it by mere will o ' the wisps of the imagination .
the poor girl , however , was herself a prisoner , for there was no one about the house except the man who acted as coachman , and his wife , both of whom were tools of the conspirators .
the tip had been cut off , not bitten off , but the cut was not a clean one , so i deduced a blunt pen knife .
well , then , you know now .
i want to buy them .
i met agatha late the last two evenings , and she locks the brute up so as to give me a clear run .
did you take it ?
indeed !
in the evening he recurred to the subject of his own accord .
james 's end .
he took a pair of night glasses from his pocket and gazed some time at the shore .
the least sound would be fatal to our plans .
what a stroke of luck !
he continued , sitting down in the rocking chair ,
be frank with me and we may do some good .
slowly she advanced , her face pale and drawn with a frightful apprehension , her eyes fixed and staring , her terrified gaze riveted upon the dark figure on the floor .
the transport ship gloria scott was set down by the admiralty as being lost at sea , and no word has ever leaked out as to her true fate .
large sitting room on the right side , well furnished , with long windows almost to the floor , and those preposterous english window fasteners which a child could open .
he concluded .
colonel barclay 's family life appears to have been a uniformly happy one .
in the hope that we may find something which may bear upon our investigation .
it was not me that was in danger .
my dear watson ,
then we rushed on into the captain 's cabin , but as we pushed open the door there was an explosion from within , and there he lay with his brains smeared over the chart of the atlantic which was pinned upon the table , while the chaplain stood with a smoking pistol in his hand at his elbow .
well , that is one suggestion , mr holmes .
who ever heard of such a mixed affair ?
well , we 've lived there fifteen years and no such happenings ever came before .
why , no , mr holmes .
odd , watson very odd !
my wife is expecting me .
i am going to do a little climbing .
two others remained there , and there was a vacant place for the third .
ah , here it is : ' there will soon be a call for protection in the marriage market , for the present free trade principle appears to tell heavily against our home product .
the trial of the scowrers was held far from the place where their adherents might have terrified the guardians of the law .
oh , come , you can n't be charged with that unless they make a case of attempted suicide of it ,
his grace is never very friendly with anyone .
it was his companion .
i then glanced at her face , and , observing the dint of a pince nez at either side of her nose , i ventured a remark upon short sight and typewriting , which seemed to surprise her .
any other way would have been exceedingly complicated .
i hate to have my things touched , watson .
i feel it in my bones .
you must admit that it is curious and suggestive that this incident should occur on the eve of this important match , and should involve the only man whose presence seems essential to the success of the side .
found a screw driver and some screws on the wash hand stand .
sherlock holmes .
he waved his hand , turned on his heel , and disappeared in an instant among the crowd .
this begins to look genuine , i thought , and having seen her safely inside , i perched myself behind .
i know that james did n't do it .
he was a middle aged man , portly and affable , with a considerable fund of local lore .
but the instant that she was gone he realised how crushing a misfortune this would be for you , and how all important it was to set it right .
you shall not have a farthing from me , ' i cried , on which he bowed and left the room without another word .
in the first place , i must tell you that there are several points in the story of which i am myself ignorant .
i fear that the incident must have a very prejudicial effect upon his career .
frank would n't throw up his hand , though so he followed me there , and he saw me without pa knowing anything about it .
something in his tone caught my ear , and i turned to look at him .
holmes drove in silence , with his head sunk upon his breast , and the air of a man who is lost in thought , while i sat beside him , curious to learn what this new quest might be which seemed to tax his powers so sorely , and yet afraid to break in upon the current of his thoughts .
the wet , sandy path took it admirably .
surely your medical experience would tell you , watson , that weakness in one limb is often compensated for by exceptional strength in the others .
there is half a column of print , but i know without reading it that it is all perfectly familiar to me .
never trust to general impressions , my boy , but concentrate yourself upon details .
several false keys .
send the boy for a four wheeler , and we shall be off at once .
this great and sombre stage is set for something more worthy than that ,
on monday we should have them all .
and what became of the bust ?
but then it occurred to me that there might be a search in the room , and that the clothes might betray me .
the priory is , without exception , the best and most select preparatory school in england .
this murder had , on the contrary , been done most deliberately , and the perpetrator had left his tracks all over the room , showing that he had been there all the time .
we were fortunate enough to catch an early train at waterloo , and in a little under an hour we found ourselves among the fir woods and the heather of woking .
what have you done , holmes ?
that was unfortunate .
it was certainly more roomy than the ordinary four wheeled disgrace to london , and the fittings , though frayed , were of rich quality .
his passion is for the british law , and he has spent a large fortune in litigation .
let me run over the principal steps .
the strange story of jonathan small
it is the precious stone .
i have no doubt that you have been annoyed more than enough already over this business .
it was a young fellow about seventeen , dressed like an ostler , with leather cords and gaiters .
after the first introduction there were few evenings when he did not find his way to mcginty 's saloon , there to make closer acquaintance with the boys , which was the jovial title by which the dangerous gang who infested the place were known to one another .
you hang your clothes behind it .
i do n't say that we have fathomed it far from it but when we have traced the missing dumb bell
i cudgelled my brains to find some possible explanation .
he was a man of little culture , but with a considerable amount of rude strength , both physically and mentally .
the shadow of a man who was seated in a chair within was thrown in hard , black outline upon the luminous screen of the window .
that the rider is now undoubtedly forcing the pace ?
for a moment i wished that i were armed .
this photograph !
sterndale 's fierce face turned to a dusky red , his eyes glared , and the knotted , passionate veins started out in his forehead , while he sprang forward with clenched hands towards my companion .
he cried .
i met theresa again .
but i am all in the dark .
i am sorry ,
holmes had sent on a wire , so that lestrade , as wiry , as dapper , and as ferret like as ever , was waiting for us at the station .
my ramifications stretch out into many sections of society , but never , i am happy to say , into amateur sport , which is the best and soundest thing in england .
tell me what to do .
before seeing him .
that is not quite so common , is it ?
cried miss hunter .
a series of disgraceful brawls took place , two of which ended in the police court , until at last he became the terror of the village , and the folks would fly at his approach , for he is a man of immense strength , and absolutely uncontrollable in his anger .
he looked stealthily all round him .
halloa !
you have a good memory ?
he admits that the dead man was jealous , and maybe he knew best himself what cause he had for jealousy .
that i extend to the affairs of my other clients the same secrecy which i promise to you in yours .
agatha that 's my fiancee says it is a joke in the servants ' hall that it 's impossible to wake the master .
what about the shotgun ?
the police imagine , i take it , that this fitzroy simpson , having drugged the lad , and having in some way obtained a duplicate key , opened the stable door and took out the horse , with the intention , apparently , of kidnapping him altogether .
he spoke in a nervous , jerky fashion , and with little giggling laughs in between , but somehow he impressed me with fear more than the other .
elementary ,
you put the very question which i have asked myself again and again .
we must fall back upon the old axiom that when all other contingencies fail , whatever remains , however improbable , must be the truth .
more than once they lost their way , but hope 's intimate knowledge of the mountains enabled them to regain the track once more .
cried sherlock holmes , genially .
they have but one retreat ,
i shall most certainly do so .
there was a moment 's delay , but the gentleman in the pew handed it up to her again , and it did not appear to be the worse for the fall .
there only remained the first mate , who was a bold and active man .
cried the german , straining against his bonds and glaring murder from his furious eyes .
ah , the rascal !
but then the impossibility of the thing obtruded itself upon me .
the police have watched this lascar ,
godfrey was not fond of the old man .
i wonder !
finally i heard a click , the broad green door swung open , and inside i had a glimpse of a number of paper packets , each tied , sealed , and inscribed .
but why should this man pretend to be his own brother ?
that 's the question that beats in my brain like a hammer .
well , what happened then ?
then i swallowed the other , and we stood facing one another in silence for a minute or more , waiting to see which was to live and which was to die .
right in front of the house , upon the left hand side of the drive , there stood a patriarch among oaks , one of the most magnificent trees that i have ever seen .
i am sure .
he moved slowly forward with his candle among the queer animal family which he had gathered round him .
they could only have come from the old man at my side , and yet he sat now as absorbed as ever , very thin , very wrinkled , bent with age , an opium pipe dangling down from between his knees , as though it had dropped in sheer lassitude from his fingers .
that was why i put them out .
well , it is quite possible , but the case is not clear to me yet .
for three hours we strolled about together , watching the ever changing kaleidoscope of life as it ebbs and flows through fleet street and the strand .
was there any clue , may i ask , as to the exact hour that the man met his death ?
has any one passed this way ?
i tell you that it is four or none with us .
holmes laughed softly to himself and stretched himself out upon the cushioned seat .
five minutes later a lamp was lit in a room upon the first floor .
if you have a fancy to see your name in the next honours list
in a fit of anger , however , caused by some robberies which had been perpetrated in the house , he beat his native butler to death and narrowly escaped a capital sentence .
on my way i saw william crowder , the game keeper , as he had stated in his evidence but he is mistaken in thinking that i was following my father .
he stepped forward , took up his coat , laid his hand on his revolver , and turned to the door .
i should like to have a look at the gentleman , and see if i can make anything of his little game .
ordering my cab to wait , i passed down the steps , worn hollow in the centre by the ceaseless tread of drunken feet and by the light of a flickering oil lamp above the door i found the latch and made my way into a long , low room , thick and heavy with the brown opium smoke , and terraced with wooden berths , like the forecastle of an emigrant ship .
i think that your decision is a wise one .
why , who do you think this is ?
let us take that as a working hypothesis and see what it leads us to .
but i want a dog ,
i tried to read , but my thoughts would wander off to our strange quest and to the ill assorted and villainous pair whom we were pursuing .
stay where you are .
the great minister showed perceptible hesitation .
white mason looked doubtfully at the amateur .
irene norton , n e adler .
one of the farms which he held , that of hatherley , was let to mr charles mccarthy , who was also an ex australian .
you could n't come any other time eh ?
we were at breakfast when the colonel 's butler rushed in with all his propriety shaken out of him .
he is a perfect gentleman .
godolphin street , westminster , is only a few minutes ' walk from whitehall terrace .
he could not explain the true state of affairs without betraying one who certainly deserved little enough consideration at his hands .
in reaching the door he would have to pass seven bedrooms on the other hand , he could get out on to the lawn with ease .
i have been working in that get up all day ,
i could not hear a sound , not even the drawing of a breath , and yet i knew that my companion sat open eyed , within a few feet of me , in the same state of nervous tension in which i was myself .
he was a respectable , elderly gentleman .
from your slippers .
has the fact been verified ?
cruise gently up and down here under cover of this string of lighters .
had there been women in the house , i should have suspected a mere vulgar intrigue .
in each case , not only are the ' e 's ' slurred and the ' r 's ' tailless , but you will observe , if you care to use my magnifying lens , that the fourteen other characteristics to which i have alluded are there as well .
unwelcome truths are not popular .
the two bade adieu to their landlady upon tuesday , the th inst .
it was a net from which it seemed to me , a few hours ago , that there was no possible escape .
but then , again , your face grew sadder , you shook your head .
now , my fine fellow ,
it is probably speeding on its way thither at the present instant as fast as steam can take it .
this way !
henry is the last of the baskervilles .
this gave the hunter little uneasiness , however , for there was game to be had among the mountains , and he had frequently before had to depend upon his rifle for the needs of life .
you say that she quarrelled with your liverpool relations .
he added , as his eyes fell upon the safe from which the curtain was now removed ,
who are these gentlemen whom you have brought with you ?
it is your misfortune , my dear fellow .
i endeavoured to apologize for the accident , but it was evident that these books which i had so unfortunately maltreated were very precious objects in the eyes of their owner .
sir henry smiled .
take a pinch of snuff , doctor , and acknowledge that i have scored over you in your example .
whom was it to ?
had it not been too fiendish , i could have imagined that the gleam of the fanlight showed exultation in his face .
really we must see baynes at once ,
that was how enoch drebber came to his end .
is it a simple key ?
we have not yet met our waterloo , watson , but this is our marengo , for it begins in defeat and ends in victory .
the note was undated , and without either signature or address .
october th .
instead we were faced by an object so strange and so unexpected that we stood for a moment staring at it in amazement .
my stepfather 's business papers .
it looks as if they always send their singular warning or token before them when starting upon their mission .
instantly there broke from the grey parcel a little moaning cry , and from it there protruded a small , scared face , with very bright brown eyes , and two little speckled , dimpled fists .
of course there can be no doubt as to the nature of this gang .
ettie shafter 's father would have nothing more to do with him , nor would he allow him to enter the house .
but what is it that alarms you ?
you shall go free if you sign .
of course , i did not mind you so much , as you are not connected with the official police , but it is not pleasant to have a family misfortune like this noised abroad .
as you look at their gray stone huts against the scarred hillsides you leave your own age behind you , and if you were to see a skin clad , hairy man crawl out from the low door fitting a flint tipped arrow on to the string of his bow , you would feel that his presence there was more natural than your own .
well , mr holmes , from the moment that i understood that there was something about that suite of rooms which i was not to know , i was all on fire to go over them .
this fellow could speak english and did his housekeeping for him .
my name , dear lad , is not trevor .
we travelled by the underground as far as aldersgate and a short walk took us to saxe coburg square , the scene of the singular story which we had listened to in the morning .
cried pycroft , scratching his head .
it is equally certain , too , that whatever her sins are , they will soon receive a more than sufficient punishment .
after a short , formal examination from the inspector in charge he was put into the common cell .
there has , i fear , been preconcerted management here .
surely you have gone too far ?
you took me in completely .
he refused to discuss it with me .
you have worked things in such a fashion that we have only one resource left .
so you would think , sir , unless it was the other man who took it .
from the top of it one has a view not only of the whole straggling , grimy town , but of the winding valley beneath , with its scattered mines and factories blackening the snow on each side of it , and of the wooded and white capped ranges flanking it .
i even embodied it in a small brochure with the somewhat fantastic title of ' a study in scarlet .
but if i had not taken things for granted , if i had examined everything with the care which i should have shown had we approached the case de novo and had no cut and dried story to warp my mind , should i not then have found something more definite to go upon ?
yes , sir ,
then , again , the man who took the rooms spoke english well .
he was not to be drawn .
now , on the other side of this narrow wing runs the corridor from which these three rooms open .
and now , lord st .
i must beg you to hurry , for we have a great day before us .
the red steps pointed towards us and led away from an inner room , the door of which was closed .
this man has disappeared and has escaped from the country .
there could be no doubt what the sounds were now .
when you like and where you like .
have lost a sensational treat through the sudden death of the man hope , who was suspected of the murder of mr enoch drebber and of mr joseph stangerson .
it is not to be wondered at , for time hangs heavily in this lonely spot to an active man like him , and she is a very fascinating and beautiful woman .
my report , as i expected , is a negative one ,
now , when i am counting upon joining it here , you tell me that it is the same as a murder society called the scowrers .
mrs charpentier blushed at my pertinent question .
we must be at briony lodge to meet her .
quite so .
he was white to the very lips , and had sunk down on the stone against which he had been leaning .
so it was even now .
it 's not the will but the nerve that is wanting in me .
it was only after her marriage to this englishman that i was able to find out where she was .
the good fellow was heart broken at it , and went out to the terai tea planting , where i hear that he is doing well .
this was cecil james barker , of hales lodge , hampstead .
i 'll begin at the time of my marriage last year , but i want to say first of all that , though i 'm not a rich man , my people have been at riding thorpe for a matter of five centuries , and there is no better known family in the county of norfolk .
but this blow was delivered with such violence that the head of the weapon sank deep into the wall .
our pistols rang out together .
tut , my boy you know about figures .
i have brought off a double event .
he is completely immersed in large public questions , and is rather inaccessible to all ordinary emotions .
he spoke with a sudden passion of earnestness .
the colonel 's name , you remember , was james .
we will keep it as a little surprise for them .
why did you not call in a doctor ?
out by the cleft tor , i think .
young west took the papers .
i would suggest that mr cubitt 's body may now be removed .
one singular point which struck her quick feminine eye was that although he wore some dark coat , such as he had started to town in , he had on neither collar nor necktie .
i introduced him in a few words , and we both sat down .
let us see , in the future , how high you can rise .
lord mount james is one of the richest men in england .
our first attention was given to the body of the unfortunate squire , whose huge frame lay stretched across the room .
he cried .
of course i have other reasons for thinking so dozens of exiguous threads which lead vaguely up towards the centre of the web where the poisonous , motionless creature is lurking .
the brute !
it was agreed that when the police left the house i should slip away by night and come back no more .
perhaps that is his supper which you are carrying to him .
but we are bound to exhaust all other hypotheses before falling back upon this one .
i was selected to take charge during certain hours of the night of a small isolated door upon the southwest side of the building .
observed mycroft .
it was , alas , only too easy to do .
as you are aware , watson , there is no one who knows the higher criminal world of london so well as i do .
it is clearly the tread of a shoe .
macdonald smiled feebly , and looked appealingly to me .
then he tried the various keys in the lock , but without success .
this small but select mansion has been inhabited for some years by mr eduardo lucas , well known in society circles both on account of his charming personality and because he has the well deserved reputation of being one of the best amateur tenors in the country .
they have their knives into one another , too .
witness with considerable confusion : i do not know .
it is just in such details that the skilled detective differs from the gregson and lestrade type .
you think that he is dead ?
was the door open ?
but what i want to know is , who shifted the carpet , and why ?
his flushed face and glazed , bloodshot eyes told of sleeplessness and drink .
he was busily engaged at it when the cabman entered the room .
you will put the liquor on the table , brother scanlan , and we will drink to our worthy brother .
you would , perhaps , care to remain during the consultation ?
a wisp of green floating in the air caught my eye , and another glance showed me that it was carried on a stick by a man who was moving among the broken ground .
finding that my companions would not be led into conversation , i took out my pipe , and laid down my musket to strike the match .
to night i tried again and succeeded , but i find that the pages which deal with that month have been torn from the book .
you shall see him within an hour ?
one of his hands .
this place , deep dene house , is a big modern villa of staring brick , standing back in its own grounds , with a laurel clumped lawn in front of it .
it is all full of great deserted halls , and winding passages , and long corridors twisting in and out , so that it is easy enough for folk to get lost in it .
at this point , where my pipe is now resting , a county constable was on duty from twelve to six .
i should not dream of trying ,
i shall write to mr rucastle at once , sacrifice my poor hair to night , and start for winchester to morrow .
a groan of disappointment came up from below , and the folk all trooped away in different directions until there was not a red head to be seen except my own and that of the manager .
he shrank away and then fell forward upon the table , coughing furiously and clawing among the papers .
i am somewhat of a fowl fancier , and i have seldom seen a better grown goose .
there is something amiss with bartholomew !
the butcher ' s ?
because , in some professional inquiry , he has been working among chinese sailors down in the docks .
this is where we shall find them .
and my uncle !
she saw mr barker , very pale and excited , come out of the study .
there was something very strange in all this .
that was what the operator thought and what i thought at the time but i think differently now .
i proceed , then , from the morning which followed our abortive chase of the convict and our other strange experiences upon the moor .
i did not act , however , with undue precipitation .
his absence was discovered at seven o clock on tuesday morning .
excellent !
my poor husband would sit pale and listless , listening to the endless raving upon politics and upon social questions which made up our visitor 's conversation .
then he handed me a yellow backed novel , and moving my chair a little sideways , that my own shadow might not fall upon the page , he begged me to read aloud to him .
the main fact is that he had the pearl , and at that moment , when it was on his person , he was pursued by the police .
my wife was twenty before her father became a rich man .
that is much more likely , for he would have known what their term of imprisonment was .
the most difficult crime to track is the one which is purposeless .
it would be superfluous to drive us mad , my dear watson ,
i am sure we owe you an apology , mrs toller ,
i am full of curiosity .
we had already learned that his bed had been slept in , and that the tragic end had come to him in the early morning .
a certain selection and discretion must be used in producing a realistic effect ,
he held the lamp down and illuminated a smudge of blood like the mark of a boot sole upon the wooden sill .
nearer the road , and surrounded on three sides by bushes , was a small outhouse , one window and the door facing in our direction .
well , i think we have exhausted the path .
you see , i argued that if drebber and his companion had become separated , the natural course for the latter would be to put up somewhere in the vicinity for the night , and then to hang about the station again next morning .
it means no good to anyone of the name of baskerville , and very glad i shall be to be quit of it all on the day that sir henry 's new servants are ready to take over the hall .
but before we could move , the man had emerged again .
you got my wire ?
it is to that remark that she refers in this note :
this is a serious proposition ,
i 'm afraid ,
only one word of epilogue .
and you , wilson .
but you must put yourself under my orders .
john clayton departed chuckling , and holmes turned to me with a shrug of his shoulders and a rueful smile .
holmes shook his head like a man who is far from being satisfied .
he put a hand on either side of his head and rocked himself to and fro , droning to himself like a child whose grief has got beyond words .
and how came it in the pond ?
it was the work of this brutal ruffian whom he had the misfortune to employ .
then , i think , if you were an active man , you might swarm up , wooden leg and all .
the key , having served its purpose , would be hurled away .
once i pressed him about it .
well , you realize your position , you and your accomplice here .
everything about this case is rum .
then , thinking that i was still asleep , she slipped noiselessly from the room , and an instant later i heard a sharp creaking which could only come from the hinges of the front door .
they were very near doing it for all that .
i came over at once to london , called in my own person at baker street , threw mrs hudson into violent hysterics , and found that mycroft had preserved my rooms and my papers exactly as they had always been .
it 's with me you must come .
this is beyond anything which i could have imagined .
but surely he would hear us .
having his own peculiar source of income , he was irregular in his attendance at his work so he had a late breakfast , and remained at home for the morning writing a long letter to a friend .
it may have been a book lying on its side .
that fellow will rise from crime to crime until he does something very bad , and ends on a gallows .
what course do you recommend ?
no , they are the homes of our worthy ancestors .
when they came out through the french window , there was the pond with one tempting little hole in the ice , right in front of their noses .
each daughter can claim an income of pounds , in case of marriage .
how this warning came into his room puzzled john ferrier sorely , for his servants slept in an outhouse , and the doors and windows had all been secured .
is an expert singlestick player , boxer , and swordsman .
if you do your work well , mr sherlock holmes , you will have no reason to complain of niggardly treatment .
i had hardly got the paper , however which was , as i had expected , in one of them when the two cunninghams were on me , and would , i verily believe , have murdered me then and there but for your prompt and friendly aid .
he had risen from his chair and was standing between the parted blinds gazing down into the dull neutral tinted london street .
he imprudently puts himself into the power of the young man and his older associate .
he cannot leave town at present .
i must take some definite action to night .
do not tell me that we have to sit down under this ?
it was all your doing .
your boy , arthur , went to bed after his interview with you but he slept badly on account of his uneasiness about his club debts .
it was the first link in my chain of reasoning .
when i say , therefore , that mycroft has better powers of observation than i , you may take it that i am speaking the exact and literal truth .
at the foot of the bed , half sitting , half kneeling , his face buried in the clothes , was a young man , whose frame was racked by his sobs .
what reason then ?
you see i have a lot of special knowledge which i apply to the problem , and which facilitates matters wonderfully .
we knew him well and miss him more than i can tell .
but we shall have horrors enough before the night is over for goodness ' sake let us have a quiet pipe and turn our minds for a few hours to something more cheerful .
what a rag bag of singular happenings !
there are one or two indications , and yet the utmost pains have been taken to remove all clues .
and stapleton , where is he ?
supposing i unravel the whole matter , you may be sure that gregson , lestrade , and co .
a nice trap !
then in an instant his sudden access of strength departed , and his masterful , purposeful talk droned away into the low , vague murmurings of a semi delirious man .
the importance of the point struck me so forcibly that i sent a special wire to dartmoor yesterday to clear the matter up .
as he spoke there was a sharp ring at the bell .
what is that scratch upon the face of it ?
it was a sudden impulse upon my part , and i have mentioned it to no one .
it was precious dirty and lonely .
two at least were in it , and maybe three .
say , rather , into the region where we balance probabilities and choose the most likely .
the two famous germans stood beside the stone parapet of the garden walk , with the long , low , heavily gabled house behind them , and they looked down upon the broad sweep of the beach at the foot of the great chalk cliff in which von bork , like some wandering eagle , had perched himself four years before .
if he could get on a good trail of the scowrers , he 's ready to follow it into hell .
come , watson , let us go across ourselves and see what we can make of it .
here for example , is a very possible and even probable one .
when the fighting was over there was no one left of our enemies except just the warders , the mates , and the doctor .
right again .
here it is , under the financial column .
sit at this desk and write to my dictation .
my friend smiled and shook his head .
his hands were far from horny .
of course , you are a friend now .
it is a woman 's writing , done with a sharp pointed pen , but the address is either done with another pen or by someone else .
on the contrary , to my mind nothing could be more clear .
a seven per cent .
come along , watson .
why do n't you say some yourself ?
that is a private matter .
yes , watson , i went there , and i found very quickly that the late lamented oldacre was a pretty considerable blackguard .
the more usual victims are a white cock , which is plucked in pieces alive , or a black goat , whose throat is cut and body burned .
i can n't profess to say what it means ,
a spasm of pain contorted his features he threw his hands out in front of him , staggered , and then , with a hoarse cry , fell heavily upon the floor .
he has a deep horror of anything of the kind .
it is an old manuscript .
well , holmes ,
he is utterly innocent of it .
i must compliment you exceedingly upon the zeal and the intelligence which you have shown over an extraordinarily difficult case .
a man 's surely ,
for god 's sake , do n't refuse to answer me .
there is my story , mr holmes .
mcmurdo whispered , as he went from the room , closing the door carefully behind him .
holmes sprang up from where he crouched by the window .
to those that are loyal and go through with it and are a help to the lodge .
i saw him start , and he was evidently as surprised as i .
well i can answer for it that it was so .
you know such a lot , mr holmes , perhaps you had better tell us some more ,
make appointment by letter .
within a week he had become infinitely the most important person at shafter 's .
was the photograph a cabinet ?
yes , i thought so .
you leave out a link or two , and i can n't get over the gap .
he wore a very shiny top hat and a neat suit of sober black , which made him look what he was a smart young city man , of the class who have been labeled cockneys , but who give us our crack volunteer regiments , and who turn out more fine athletes and sportsmen than any body of men in these islands .
but there was something wrong compasses , or map , or something , and it did n't turn up .
i shall stand behind this crate , and do you conceal yourselves behind those .
he receives these wares not only from treacherous valets or maids , but frequently from genteel ruffians , who have gained the confidence and affection of trusting women .
yes , i have been dragging the serpentine .
as we approached , a groom ran out from them .
you do n't deserve much consideration , brunton , i answered .
you will go down ?
there is evidence that a woman , who might have been mme .
we may find something else of charles the first , ' i cried , as the probable meaning of the first two questions of the ritual broke suddenly upon me .
we will ring if we want you .
well , i 'm afraid i can n't help you , lestrade ,
he swore like a madman and jabbed at me with an oar , for he must have seen death in my eyes .
there are , of course , details to be filled in , but i am as certain of all the main facts , from the time that drebber parted from stangerson at the station , up to the discovery of the body of the latter , as if i had seen them with my own eyes .
but there were ample signs that i had not come upon a false scent .
the first night he was reasonable enough , and was ready to give me what would make me free of the sea for life .
to tell the truth
there was no getting away from you .
your time in cambridge will certainly be wasted .
ah , of course , here is a hole in the roof .
i next examined the corridor .
on opening the standard , however , i found that there was a fresh allusion to the business .
you remember that lewisham gang of burglars ?
a mere suicide would not have caused him to send for me .
take this hansom , drive home , have some breakfast , and get an hour 's sleep .
i guess you 'd best reckon on my hearing all that passes .
he cried , exultantly .
some one calls him a soul concealed in an animal ,
it has not been considerate enough to leave any of its hair behind it .
not particularly .
and the reason why i tell you is that i hope frankness may beget frankness .
the malignant creature was seated in his own parlour , with a policeman upon each side of him .
the indications are ruined by three days ' delay .
capital !
meanwhile i will reconstruct what is past for your benefit , so that you may know the information which i still require .
now we are fresh and well , so it is all cheerful once more .
we saw the sudden flash of a dark lantern inside the room .
sherlock .
it seems to me perfectly clear ,
when leaving the house she was heard by the coachman to make some commonplace remark to her husband , and to assure him that she would be back before very long .
title and money who could carry them better than she ?
well , in investigating this minor affair we must not lose sight of our main inquiry .
i was glad enough to agree .
to my astonishment it was sherlock holmes who stood upon my step .
we could see the marks in the wood where it had been pushed in .
at six you can go .
yes , my boy , these were all done prematurely before my biographer had come to glorify me .
now his practical scotch intelligence brought him back with a snap to the matter in hand .
his two brothers and his sister were seated round the table exactly as he had left them , the cards still spread in front of them and the candles burned down to their sockets .
it put me in a most awkward position .
but for what motive ?
well , good bye , and let us know how you get on .
every instinct that i possess cries out against it .
choked by the rising cloud of dust and by the steam from the struggling creatures , she might have abandoned her efforts in despair , but for a kindly voice at her elbow which assured her of assistance .
and yet the writing is of interest .
there he sat , with his tweed suit and his american accent , in the corner of a prosaic railway carriage , and yet as i looked at his dark and expressive face i felt more than ever how true a descendant he was of that long line of high blooded , fiery , and masterful men .
they still live with their old servants , who probably know so much of rucastle 's past life that he finds it difficult to part from them .
, purdley place mr james baker williams , forton old hall mr henderson , high gable rev .
they are the devil 's pet baits .
the facts of the case , as far as i have worked them out , are these : this joseph harrison entered the office through the charles street door , and knowing his way he walked straight into your room the instant after you left it .
we did not , however .
that is a very important point .
until you tell me who it is that has been living in that cottage , and who it is to whom you have given that photograph , there can never be any confidence between us ,
i ejaculated after i had twice read over the extraordinary announcement .
i have a good mind to go to london with you ,
the bullet had passed through the front of her brain , and it would probably be some time before she could regain consciousness .
holmes and i had taken things for the night , and found comfortable quarters at the bull .
it will be of use to me to hear the succession of events again .
that will do .
a draghound will follow aniseed from here to john o groat ' s , and our friend , armstrong , would have to drive through the cam before he would shake pompey off his trail .
three two and one are three two of dr barnicot ' s , and one smashed in broad daylight on my own counter .
it was a small shed in the narrow garden which ran behind the house .
now that i have got so far , i had best proceed on my own lines , and then clear the whole matter up once and for all .
there was no eagerness in her voice , however .
the former retires early and sleeps at the top of the house .
but we have learned a good deal , you perceive .
now the letter :
we again trace the presence of some confederate in the household .
look here , mr sherlock holmes ,
did you point out to her that you and mr phelps , who started at least twenty minutes after her , got home before her ?
possibly .
the supply of adult women was running short , and polygamy without a female population on which to draw was a barren doctrine indeed .
why on earth should two men write a letter in such a fashion ?
i expect we all do our duty same as we see it but we can n't all see it the same .
these boys saw and heard nothing , so that it is certain that young saltire did not pass out that way .
we feed him once a day , and not too much then , so that he is always as keen as mustard .
he is to tap three times , and me to open the door for him .
what have you done ?
now , clayton , tell me all about the fare who came and watched this house at ten o clock this morning and afterwards followed the two gentlemen down regent street .
you would do well , mr holmes , not to forget it , for i have no desire to do you an injury .
watson was asking for orders .
what have i done ?
i tried again and again to make my sikhs talk , but without much success .
even now , if we could be sure which of them has taken it , it is just possible that it has not yet passed out of his hands .
you have formed a theory , then ?
now , thank god , i am beyond their power forever .
glancing back , i saw a tall man pushing his way furiously through the crowd , and waving his hand as if he desired to have the train stopped .
he implored me not to go on .
holmes took a note of the address .
let us suppose , for example , that he had been approached by some foreign agent .
where could i find him ?
he sprang up and shook me by the hand .
in the case of the darlington substitution scandal it was of use to me , and also in the arnsworth castle business .
as he spoke , he threw into the vessel a few white crystals , and then added some drops of a transparent fluid .
no , sir not a word .
we 'll never be right in this district until chester wilcox has been settled , and you 'll have the thanks of every lodge in the coal fields if you can down him .
i ejaculated , as a man stepped out of it .
a ball of string , a letter weight , and i do n't know what other odds and ends .
yet , on the other hand , i had myself seen the evidence , and i had heard the reasons for his deductions .
why did he not break it there , since it is evident that every yard that he carried it increased the risk of someone meeting him ?
yet , though looked at with some curiosity and reserve by his more cultivated neighbours , he soon acquired a great popularity among the villagers , subscribing handsomely to all local objects , and attending their smoking concerts and other functions , where , having a remarkably rich tenor voice , he was always ready to oblige with an excellent song .
in the middle of it , clearly marked on the sodden soil , was the track of a bicycle .
i do n't think that fine fellow will trouble us again ,
some , too , have baffled his analytical skill , and would be , as narratives , beginnings without an ending , while others have been but partially cleared up , and have their explanations founded rather upon conjecture and surmise than on that absolute logical proof which was so dear to him .
he could see what he was doing here , and he could not there .
i heard him cock it but i had got hold of it before he could fire .
the best way of successfully acting a part is to be it ,
no , no , that was a living voice .
i 've heard that voice before ,
but i do n't know why it should be tied .
that may point to carelessness or it may point to agitation and hurry upon the part of the cutter .
was it taken from him in order to conceal the station from which he came ?
what about holmes ?
i listened to his heart , as requested , but was unable to find anything amiss , save indeed that he was in an ecstasy of fear , for he shivered from head to foot .
there lies the inexplicable part of it .
you forget , mr pinner , that i am here by appointment to receive some directions from you ,
these ,
as he ran he jerked his hands up and down , waggled his head , and writhed his face into the most extraordinary contortions .
first of all , we saw the body of this unfortunate man .
however , i have got all i wanted .
what do you think of the matter , mr holmes ?
i was given a hut in hope town , which is a small place on the slopes of mount harriet , and i was left pretty much to myself .
sherlock holmes and i looked blankly at each other , and then burst simultaneously into an uncontrollable fit of laughter .
this may be very interesting ,
that 's all right , ' said he , coming back .
what is the case ?
there is an appalling directness about your questions , watson ,
could he could he be the stranger whom i saw upon the tor ?
the hall and the moor are not very pleasant places when one is alone .
that very evening i moved my things round from the hotel , and on the following morning sherlock holmes followed me with several boxes and portmanteaus .
posted to day in gravesend by a man with a dirty thumb .
you will ask me what was james 's motive in doing such a deed .
i have been followed from london bridge station , and i am sure that they are only waiting for the warrant to arrest me .
beyond his post the path broadened out , and the horses were able to break into a trot .
we have had the pleasure of making the doctor 's acquaintance ,
as it is , by an indiscreet eagerness , which was taken advantage of with extraordinary quickness and energy by our opponent , we have betrayed ourselves and lost our man .
but you told me to examine it .
you forget that we know nothing of all this ,
let 's hear the worst .
there was the news of a revolution , of a possible war , and of an impending change of government but these did not come within the horizon of my companion .
you have not told me what you want of me .
how long they seemed , those quarters !
there only remained the lamp in the dining room where the two men , the murderous host and the unconscious guest , still chatted over their cigars .
not at all .
for example , observation shows me that you have been to the wigmore street post office this morning , but deduction lets me know that when there you dispatched a telegram .
it may have nothing to do with what came afterwards , but i thought it only right to mention it .
but surely his hand was not tied up like that yesterday .
she stood smiling , holding up a little slip of paper in the air .
american , as you perceive ,
his orders were to stay in the house .
with hardly a word spoken , but with a kindly eye , he waved me to an armchair , threw across his case of cigars , and indicated a spirit case and a gasogene in the corner .
never in my life have i been placed in such a situation .
it is of the highest importance , therefore , not to have useless facts elbowing out the useful ones .
the woman whose life you have ruined .
scott .
holmes looked eagerly round for another , but no empty one was in sight .
pray go on .
i will lay an account of the case before you in its due order , showing you the various points which guided me in my decision .
with a snarl of contempt he turned upon his heel , and i saw his curved back and white side whiskers disappear among the throng .
one day my editor wished to have a series of articles upon begging in the metropolis , and i volunteered to supply them .
his message , as i remember , was full of kindness and love .
did i think that because i was a baronet i could do what i liked ?
i have advised the police to turn their attention to the south of france .
generally about this colour .
why did you come to me ?
you 'll find him a knotty problem , though .
he had not understood , he said , that i was becoming attached to her , but when he saw with his own eyes that it was really so , and that she might be taken away from him , it gave him such a shock that for a time he was not responsible for what he said or did .
the mother nodded .
i am an accountant ,
then we have stopped all the holes .
i am glad to have a friend with whom i can discuss my results .
by george !
the country round is very lonely , but about half a mile to the north there is a small cluster of villas which have been built by a tavistock contractor for the use of invalids and others who may wish to enjoy the pure dartmoor air .
nothing simpler .
i never doubted it .
lestrade had produced two candles , and the policemen had uncovered their lanterns .
that without leaving your room you can unravel some knot which other men can make nothing of , although they have seen every detail for themselves ?
the moon was shining bright upon the clearing , and there in the centre lay the unhappy maid where she had fallen , dead of fear and of fatigue .
there were at least three others whose desire for vengeance upon me would only be increased by the death of their leader .
the proud lord of holdernesse was not accustomed to be so rated in his own ducal hall .
i give you my word that for three days i have tasted neither food nor drink until you were good enough to pour me out that glass of water .
possibly i had taken no step since i had been upon the moor which had not been observed and reported .
well , i suppose you mean well , and i do thank you ,
besides , i can read in a man 's eye when it is his own skin that he is frightened for .
the candle was relit , and there was our wretched captive , shivering and cowering in the grasp of the detective .
i hear of sherlock everywhere since you became his chronicler .
then how many are there ?
i am compelled , to begin with , to say something of my own college career .
what do you mean ?
suddenly she stopped and gazed at us all with a questioning stare .
i have the addresses as usual .
even the best of us
he knew that his own game was up , and was only anxious to revenge himself upon me .
can i do anything ?
once again i had reached that dead wall which seemed to be built across every path by which i tried to get at the object of my mission .
after breakfast , my dear watson .
i think i must ask you to remain sitting exactly where you are .
for an instant there was hesitation in her beautiful face .
the final problem
i 'm sure i beg pardon .
jump in , watson .
you did n't get away from us so easily , you see .
he added that he knew them to be scowrers , since no one else in the community could possibly have any enmity to him , and he had long been threatened on account of his outspoken editorials .
from the great inland sea to the distant wahsatch mountains there was no name better known than that of john ferrier .
he seems a quiet , meek mannered man enough , but i dare say that there was a lurking devil in his eyes .
i do not know that anything essential has been left unexplained .
the gentleman was bearded and moustached , you say ?
bought .
yes , sir twenty six voyages .
we flung it open and rushed out .
i glanced at the books upon the table , and in spite of my ignorance of german i could see that two of them were treatises on science , the others being volumes of poetry .
why then , did you not write to sir charles and explain this ?
a steep , boulder sprinkled hill lay upon the right which had in bygone days been cut into a granite quarry .
there is an old tin mine on an island in the heart of the mire .
the walls were carefully sounded , and were shown to be quite solid all round , and the flooring was also thoroughly examined , with the same result .
excellent , sherlock !
well , well , it was worth thinking over .
are you a doctor ?
i stooped , panting , and pressed my pistol to the dreadful , shimmering head , but it was useless to press the trigger .
i think we might drive round to the offices of the daily telegraph , and so bring a good day 's work to a conclusion .
i have good hopes of managing it through my own arrangements but it is a thing which needs delicate handling , for we have a shrewd and desperate man to deal with , who is supported , as i have had occasion to prove , by another who is as clever as himself .
so he sat as i dropped off to sleep , and so he sat when a sudden ejaculation caused me to wake up , and i found the summer sun shining into the apartment .
the housekeeper 's room was rather nearer to the front of the house than the pantry in which ames had been working .
that the incised wound upon straker may have been caused by his own knife in the convulsive struggles which follow any brain injury ?
but , tell me , watson , what do you make of our visitor 's stick ?
you 'll do it , then ?
her eyes were on her brother as i turned , and then she quickened her pace towards me .
if you think that i am going to stand here and see you die without either helping you myself or bringing anyone else to help you , then you have mistaken your man .
you cannot expect me to believe that you have read all this from his old watch !
simply by having the good fortune to get the right clue from the beginning .
my dear mr grant munro
what is the result ?
the duke bowed his assent .
it would strike him that in disappearing he might throw all pursuit off his track , and at the same time have an ample and crushing revenge upon his old sweetheart , if he could give the impression that he had been murdered by her only child .
the sitting room of our client opened by a long , low , latticed window on to the ancient lichen tinted court of the old college .
did anything come by post ?
give up the letter .
will you come with me ?
of course after that there was nothing more to be done .
but the quick inference , the subtle trap , the clever forecast of coming events , the triumphant vindication of bold theories are these not the pride and the justification of our life 's work ?
cried macdonald .
i was already firmly convinced , watson , that there were not three separate mysteries here , but one only , and that if i could read the musgrave ritual aright i should hold in my hand the clue which would lead me to the truth concerning both the butler brunton and the maid howells .
i think not .
i am a great sufferer , and i have long had suspicions as to that valve .
the descriptions agreed .
but if you mean to hint that it could reflect in any way upon this lady 's honour
there was no mistaking it for anything but a newly dug grave .
the circumstances are of great delicacy , and every precaution has to be taken to quench what might grow to be an immense scandal and seriously compromise one of the reigning families of europe .
her hand was on the bell , but she had forborne to ring it .
there was no use appealing to a magistrate .
barrymore was crouching at the window with the candle held against the glass .
i think , watson ,
simon , i have brought an advocate here who may be more successful .
in that case the coincidence must indeed be an extraordinary one .
well , no word was ever heard from him again .
as baynes remarks , we all have our systems it was my system which enabled me to find john warner , late gardener of high gable , sacked in a moment of temper by his imperious employer .
that it is my greatest joy and privilege to help you .
i guess i am too busy over the folk that visit me .
who would have ever believed it ?
the dinner itself was neither well served nor well cooked , and the gloomy presence of the taciturn servant did not help to enliven us .
there is no name ,
my name , sir but you have the advantage of me ,
it laid an egg after it was dead the bonniest , brightest little blue egg that ever was seen .
our french friends seem to have touched the spot this time .
i have a letter here , mr soames , which i wrote to you early this morning in the middle of a restless night .
now , i think that , with a few missing links , my chain is almost complete .
i am the most incurably lazy devil that ever stood in shoe leather that is , when the fit is on me , for i can be spry enough at times .
i had the further motive that baskerville hall , as the paper says , would certainly remain untenanted if anything were done to increase its already rather grim reputation .
the reader will excuse me if i conceal the date or any other fact by which he might trace the actual occurrence .
would he not consider it as too dangerous ?
it could very well have fitted into his valise .
precisely .
suddenly my eye caught the glint of a shaded lantern at the other side of the moat .
am i such a farcical bungler , watson , that i should erect an obvious dummy , and expect that some of the sharpest men in europe would be deceived by it ?
at present she is unable to give any coherent account of the past , and the doctors hold out no hopes of the reestablishment of her reason .
it will be useful for his article .
the points .
very good , mr holmes , i will tell him that you are here .
faith , i 'd be slow to do that ,
it is not an airy nothing , you see ,
of course , if dr mortimer 's surmise should be correct , and we are dealing with forces outside the ordinary laws of nature , there is an end of our investigation .
d'you mean to say those are mine ?
il n'y a pas des sots si incommodes que ceux qui ont de l'esprit !
for myself i am loyal to the lodge , and so i tell you straight but i would be a poor creature if i were to repeat to any other what you might say to me in confidence .
london has become a singularly uninteresting city since the death of the late lamented professor moriarty .
but how could i know how could i know that he would risk his life alone upon the moor in the face of all my warnings ?
and here comes the country surgeon and mrs rucastle , so i think , watson , that we had best escort miss hunter back to winchester , as it seems to me that our locus standi now is rather a questionable one .
on reaching london i drove to the langham , and was informed that captain morstan was staying there , but that he had gone out the night before and had not yet returned .
i am sure that we can find some shorter cut to a result .
each time that i saw it i was some distance away from it , so that it is impossible for me to say .
there has been murder done , and the murderer was a man .
he looks like a beaten man ,
if you can bring mr holmes , please do so for he will find something after his own heart .
she waits until her husband is asleep , and then she rushes down to endeavor to persuade them to leave her in peace .
his expression was downcast , and his bearing meek and even apologetic .
that is most important ,
i cried .
it was the maid with a telegram .
he explained ,
he has certainly a very marked influence over her , for i have seen her continually glance at him as she talked as if seeking approbation for what she said .
cried frankland , rushing upstairs .
in the corners stood carboys of acid in wicker baskets .
very good , sir ,
i had no idea how long he might be , but i sat stolidly puffing at my pipe and skipping over the pages of henri murger 's vie de boh me . ten o clock passed , and i heard the footsteps of the maid as they pattered off to bed .
she laid her little bundle of papers upon the table and went her way , with a promise to come again whenever she might be summoned .
no doubt .
from a distance , unseen by me , he had been a witness of his friend 's death and of my escape .
we had three copies typewritten , one of which i enclose .
if he was his confederate , why should he carry his photograph ?
man might have died in a fit but then the jewels are missing .
that will do .
you are aware ,
the two of them were destined to travel together round the world before sir henry had become once more the hale , hearty man that he had been before he became master of that ill omened estate .
whichever it is , my answer is fixed .
i thought it might suit me and now i know it will .
but he was a good workman one of the best .
right on both points !
i 'll tell you .
all day i have waited to hear from him , for he often likes to be alone but an hour ago i feared that something was amiss , so i went up and peeped through the key hole .
should it miscarry , you are undone .
is there anything between the hedges and the walk ?
holmes paced with light , swift steps about the room he sat in the various chairs , drawing them up and reconstructing their positions .
simon , second son of the duke of balmoral .
the centre door was closed , and across the outside of it had been fastened one of the broad bars of an iron bed , padlocked at one end to a ring in the wall , and fastened at the other with stout cord .
my mother 's dead , and i run the house .
sherlock holmes struck his hand against his knee with an impatient gesture .
now and again cases came in my way , principally through the introduction of old fellow students , for during my last years at the university there was a good deal of talk there about myself and my methods .
the first two that he tried were not successes , but the third , mr willoughby smith , a very young man straight from the university , seems to have been just what his employer wanted .
at first the steps of a few belated villagers , or the sound of voices from the village , lightened our vigil , but one by one these interruptions died away , and an absolute stillness fell upon us , save for the chimes of the distant church , which told us of the progress of the night , and for the rustle and whisper of a fine rain falling amid the foliage which roofed us in .
i cannot doubt that , if we had the cipher , we should find that this communication is of the nature that i indicate .
there 's no motive , mr holmes .
why , bannister , the servant .
mortimer , james , m .
the beating of drums , the rattle of tomtoms , and the yells and howls of the rebels , drunk with opium and with bang , were enough to remind us all night of our dangerous neighbors across the stream .
from hour to hour yesterday i expected to hear that he had been found , and that his abductor was the murderer of john straker .
i knew that i had only to flash ' vieni ' and you would surely come .
many thanks to you for what you have told me .
but as she saw who it was it faded again , and she turned away with a look of disappointment .
i should be sorry to begin my life here by breaking an old family connection .
the man cannot come near the woman , or he will guide their enemies to her .
i should much like to have a few details about this matter from the lips of jonathan small himself .
only if i see her married in my presence by a greek priest whom i know .
no , nor drink .
new course one mile and five furlongs .
he glanced swiftly over it , running his eyes up and down the columns .
yes , sir , a brown , monkey faced chap that 's called more'n once for my old man .
it is vain to look elsewhere for tracks in this dry weather , but at that point there is certainly a chance of some record being left .
sherlock holmes took a folded paper from his pocket and flattened it out on the table .
what were the terms ?
holmes darted up , and i followed him .
it must be confessed , however , that the case looks exceedingly grave against the young man , and it is very possible that he is indeed the culprit .
in the every day affairs of life it is more useful to reason forwards , and so the other comes to be neglected .
when did you find it out ?
here is the message .
but the maiden herself was most instructive .
i 'll tell you , watson .
the stout young man had left us , but his sister still remained with her hand in that of the invalid .
holmes rose from his chair .
stangerson too !
how is the owner going to restore the glories of the baskervilles if he has not money enough to keep up the property ?
that bandage tells of adventures ,
with a wry face i went out into the hall and opened the door .
in town the earliest risers were just beginning to look sleepily from their windows as we drove through the streets of the surrey side .
after that he travelled for some years , and finally he bought a small place called woodman 's lee , near forest row , in sussex .
she told me so .
they hardly rise above the common herd .
it is more than likely that porlock took his message from the old one .
you told me , four weeks ago , that thurston had an option on some south african property which would expire in a month , and which he desired you to share with him .
you are not in your true sphere .
it was about half past four .
but i beg to point out that i have not yet heard what has happened to mr garcia , nor what has become of his household .
her calm pale face , with dim , wide opened blue eyes , looked upward from amid a great tangle of golden hair .
except for the girl , i am all alone in the house with him , and it 's more than my nerves can stand .
but you will know all about it soon enough .
i usually give up one day to pure amusement when i come to town , so i spent it at the museum of the college of surgeons .
guess i 'm too old to learn .
a girl of strong character .
he dived his arm down to the bottom of the chest , and brought up a small wooden box with a sliding lid , such as children 's toys are kept in .
on all sides of you as you walk are the houses of these forgotten folk , with their graves and the huge monoliths which are supposed to have marked their temples .
i do n't quite understand .
the scared look faded from her eyes , and her agitated features smoothed into their usual commonplace .
i see that these candles in the mantelpiece have been lighted .
lord st .
yes , i knew him well , in fact , he was an old suitor of mine .
well , sir , it did not appear to be a matter which concerned the police , and yet , when you have heard the facts , you must admit that i could not leave it where it was .
i hoped that i might not be too late to catch you .
but the twelve mile drive ?
so i joined your infernal lodge , and i took my share in your councils .
he 'll crack a crib in scotland one week , and be raising money to build an orphanage in cornwall the next .
and under , ' he cried .
but surely ,
oh , no , sir it is quite separate and was left me by my uncle ned in auckland .
how are ayrshires ?
in spite of the warm weather he was crouching over a fire , and the little room was like an oven .
and then , realising the dreadful position in which i was placed , i implored him to remember that not only my honour but that of one who was far greater than i was at stake and that he threatened to raise a scandal which would convulse the nation .
there was an agitated knock at the door , and an instant afterwards dr huxtable was in the room .
he wants us all four to go up to the house together .
victor , you will acknowledge that you have used this worthy fellow rather roughly , said the dad , turning to me .
when i have told you that i saw arthur with the coronet in his hands ?
good heavens , to think that within a few hours i should myself have lost it !
you 're a smoker yourself , if i remember right , and you 'll guess what it is to be sitting for two days with tobacco in your pocket and afraid that the smell will give you away .
i had been with them five years , and old coxon gave me a ripping good testimonial when the smash came , but of course we clerks were all turned adrift , the twenty seven of us .
so much , mr holmes , for my past history and my relations with mr blessington .
why , what is it , then ?
he was red faced , burly and plethoric , with a pair of very small twinkling eyes which looked keenly out from between swollen and puffy pouches .
sherlock holmes had not come back yet .
it was an empty house which had been torn down by the gunpowder , and the grim old colour sergeant of the war was still teaching discipline to the miners of iron dike .
i thought of the fifty guineas , and of how very useful they would be to me .
if there were another man with such singular powers in england , how was it that neither police nor public had heard of him ?
we had been out for one of our evening rambles , holmes and i , and had returned about six o clock on a cold , frosty winter 's evening .
i wish to the lord , mr wilson , that i was a red headed man .
those shots must have told him that the game was up .
well , it 's early days .
see here , mister , you can n't expect me , as bodymaster , to pass into the lodge a man for whose past he can n't answer .
swiftly and methodically holmes turned over the contents of drawer after drawer and cupboard after cupboard , but no gleam of success came to brighten his austere face .
you , ' ' your , ' ' your , ' ' life , ' ' reason , ' ' value , ' ' keep away , ' ' from the .
i have no wish to commit you to anything without your having it all laid before you .
colonel !
sinking her voice into an impressive whisper ,
i knew now that i held the clue to the mystery in my hand , and all that remained was to secure the murderer .
i frankly admit that i am unable to prove it .
a drive of a couple of miles through narrow country lanes brought us to a park gate , which was opened for us by an old lodge keeper , whose haggard face bore the reflection of some great disaster .
as to the oak there could be no question at all .
i should like to know how many fellows in my shoes would have refused a share of this loot when they knew that they would have their throats cut for their pains .
as i left the dining room i happened to meet rachel howells , the maid .
do you desire your name to be kept upon the books ?
good day , mr holmes , and we shall see which gets to the bottom of the matter first .
i 've got him here ,
how can we return it ?
but this theory would not work .
i caught it , and prying its bill open , i thrust the stone down its throat as far as my finger could reach .
each of these wore some scarf or medallion as emblem of his office .
you understand ?
yes , sir
i could get no sense out of the chap who cleans them .
there were many of us who were glad enough to win back our freedom , and yet who had no wish to have murder on our souls .
there are many men in london , you know , who , some from shyness , some from misanthropy , have no wish for the company of their fellows .
when she had vanished from his sight , he realized that a crisis had come in his life , and that neither silver speculations nor any other questions could ever be of such importance to him as this new and all absorbing one .
he could talk english perfectly well .
you may place considerable confidence in mr holmes , sir ,
both these witnesses depose that mr mccarthy was walking alone .
he was all right , as far as money went , but in his deposit he had given her what looked like a bad florin .
he had , as you saw , the best of the first exchanges , but my self respect and my reputation are concerned to fight it to a finish .
when i glance over my notes and records of the sherlock holmes cases between the years ' and ' , i am faced by so many which present strange and interesting features that it is no easy matter to know which to choose and which to leave .
no , sir by that day you will be the business manager of the franco midland hardware company , limited , with a hundred and thirty four branches in the towns and villages of france , not counting one in brussels and one in san remo .
my dear fellow , is it possible you do not see how strongly it bears upon the case ?
the two forces made him lay down his gum brush with a sigh of resignation and push back his chair .
i am not sure that as a conscientious detective my first duty is not to arrest the whole household .
there was the same high , shining head , the same circular bristle of red hair , the same bloodless countenance .
any reward this time ?
it is from our friend overton , and is in answer to a question from me .
simon , then , returned from the wedding in a less cheerful frame of mind than she had gone to it .
you seemed interested last night , mr holmes , so i thought perhaps you would be glad to be present now that the affair has taken a very much graver turn .
but even within this inner fortress of the law the long arm of the freemen was able to extend .
there was something that touched me as i read this letter , something pitiable in the reiterated appeals to bring holmes .
cried gregson , pompously , rubbing his fat hands and inflating his chest .
at my suggestion a couple of the county police were summoned to be present , and i then endeavored to raise the stone by pulling on the cravat .
look at the great trench in the opposite hill .
it was an admirable hiding place .
i therefore spent the day at my club and did not return to baker street until evening .
he took the papers to sell them .
the presumption is strongly against it .
she opened a flat box as she spoke , and showed me six of the finest pearls that i had ever seen .
on entering the house this last inference was confirmed .
some inquiries are offensive ,
put your ears down to my mouth .
you will find us at poor straker 's house when you have finished your walk , and we can drive together into tavistock .
but it is a formidable case which they have to meet .
i fear that you are far from well .
my poor parish is devil ridden !
you will need your handcuffs , inspector .
he cried .
where then could butler brunton have gone in the night , and what could have become of him now ?
he suddenly rolled up his sleeve and showed upon his forearm a peculiar sign which appeared to have been branded there .
the greatest schemer of all time , the organizer of every deviltry , the controlling brain of the underworld , a brain which might have made or marred the destiny of nations that 's the man !
they had done very well but douglas had suddenly sold out and started for england .
the solitary window was so dirty that the light was hazy and uncertain , giving a dull grey tinge to everything , which was intensified by the thick layer of dust which coated the whole apartment .
half an hour before the alarm was given would be a quarter to eleven .
there are features of interest about this ally .
ryder passed his tongue over his parched lips .
it is for his sake .
twenty four hours .
she was bound to have me in .
we had come on a small black ribbon of pathway .
is he in ?
mrs marker is prepared to swear that the professor was still in his night clothes , and indeed it was impossible for him to dress without the help of mortimer , whose orders were to come at twelve o clock .
macdonald shook his head .
my dear fellow ,
that is suggestive .
here he is ,
holmes returned to his seat with that quiet look of inward satisfaction which meant that he had a congenial task before him .
you had my note ?
however , the whole thing is irregular , and i suppose we must wink at it .
after holmes ' departure for the concert , i lay down upon the sofa and endeavoured to get a couple of hours ' sleep .
this is my friend , dr watson .
but for that one trace , we might have thought that our imaginations had conjured up that wild , fierce face .
and it looks out on an angle of the courtyard so as to be partly invisible .
proceed ,
indeed !
he yelled in impotent rage , and kicked frantically into the mud with his other foot , but his struggles only bored his wooden pin the deeper into the sticky bank .
he locked the door lest the ladies should surprise him and insist upon knowing what he was doing with these names and coins .
he 's all right .
of course you would .
the mormon looked at him with undisguised astonishment indeed , it was difficult to recognize in this tattered , unkempt wanderer , with ghastly white face and fierce , wild eyes , the spruce young hunter of former days .
my next step obviously was to find the man who had produced such a remarkable impression upon mrs barclay .
but what will you do ?
to the best of his belief , the father was actually in sight at the time , and the son was following him .
if there had been anything worth her taking , it would surely have been locked up .
they were converted to this idea , and preferred to let him go .
what can we hope to do ?
his method is as follows : he allows it to be known that he is prepared to pay very high sums for letters which compromise people of wealth and position .
he interrupted impatiently
i lounged up the side aisle like any other idler who has dropped into a church .
the law cannot , as you say , touch you ,
a proposition which i took the liberty of doubting .
in old days stamford had never been a particular crony of mine , but now i hailed him with enthusiasm , and he , in his turn , appeared to be delighted to see me .
congratulate me , my dear holmes , and tell me that i have not disappointed you as an agent that you do not regret the confidence which you showed in me when you sent me down .
no legal papers or certificates ?
of all ruins , that of a noble mind is the most deplorable .
he disappeared into his bedroom and returned in a few minutes in the character of an amiable and simple minded nonconformist clergyman .
well , well , you must not do anything rash , or that you might repent .
the walls were of wood , but the floor consisted of a large iron trough , and when i came to examine it i could see a crust of metallic deposit all over it .
he at once stopped , too , keeping two hundred yards behind her .
jones , holmes , and i sat in the stern .
the front door was open , so we rushed in and hurried from room to room to the amazement of a doddering old manservant , who met us in the passage .
i reiterated .
i 'm passing shafter 's on the way to my own shack .
as i have said , there was a broad corridor there , which ran outside three empty bedrooms at one end of the corridor we were all marshalled by sherlock holmes , the constables grinning and lestrade staring at my friend with amazement , expectation , and derision chasing each other across his features .
there you must stay , or you lose your billet .
you did not overhear what they said ?
devil 's foot root !
well , now , watson , how many cows did you see on the moor ?
he hammered loudly at the knocker and pulled at the bell , but without any success .
at the same time i recognize that the evidence is purely circumstantial , and that some new development may upset it .
was that crime or what else would you call it ?
captain morstan was then to apply for leave of absence , to meet us at agra , and there we were to have a final division of the treasure , he taking the major 's share as well as his own .
if i had any indication of the nature of your suspicions or how you propose to investigate the case , i might perhaps even now give you some aid or advice .
you see !
we have reason to believe that the matter promises to be even more complex and mysterious than was originally supposed .
well , i take my chance of that .
your very voice changes as you speak .
and i live at brook street .
their papers they mean to have , be the holder of them who it may .
what else could she do ?
he had told me that no soul upon earth knew where he had gone .
when i left her in america ,
and also unfrocked .
he came across sullenly enough , and seated himself with his face resting on his hands .
but supposing , for argument 's sake , that we had him arrested tonight , what on earth the better off should we be for that ?
there was no other boarder , and the hostess was an easy going old irishwoman who left them to themselves so that they had a freedom for speech and action welcome to men who had secrets in common .
a criminal strain ran in his blood , which , instead of being modified , was increased and rendered infinitely more dangerous by his extraordinary mental powers .
let me pass , i say !
exactly .
the london criminal is certainly a dull fellow ,
you see that stain on the carpet ?
hold up , man , hold up , you have no life left in you .
pray tell me in what way i can reward you .
well , not to make a mystery of so simple a matter , i was looking for the missing dumb bell .
shall the world , then , be overrun by oysters ?
it cried .
witness : i must still refuse .
can you recall that the tracks were sometimes like that , watson ,
we are all ready to acknowledge that you are a smart man , and that you have your own methods of working .
it was in vain to argue with him , for he was a very obstinate man .
macdonald shook his obstinate scotch head .
it ended in my moving into the house next lady day , and starting in practice on very much the same conditions as he had suggested .
it is a perfectly overpowering impulse , and i have more than once taken advantage of it .
mr abelwhite was an obstinate man .
no , it does not .
from her i learned the ways of the house .
dear me !
a sheep dog of the moor ?
and the police have n't , nor will they , to the best of my belief .
she is herself the very soul of delicacy .
i do n't pretend to understand it all yet , but very curious people anyway .
the coyote skulks among the scrub , the buzzard flaps heavily through the air , and the clumsy grizzly bear lumbers through the dark ravines , and picks up such sustenance as it can amongst the rocks .
holmes flung open the door and rushed in , but he was out again in an instant , with his hand to his throat .
she has a remarkably thick nose , with eyes which are set close upon either side of it .
i assure you , my good lestrade , that i have an excellent reason for everything that i do .
you say yourself that the horse was fresh and glossy when you got in .
i should not be surprised if that were he .
too late !
simon 's narrative .
are they not fresh and beautiful ?
perhaps .
as he held out his hand to holmes , i perceived that it was also stained with yellow nicotine .
i packed my things , banged the hall door behind me , and set off for esher , with my bag in my hand .
so it proved for in the morning i found my friend standing on the hearthrug with his back to the fire and a smile of complete satisfaction upon his face .
for answer holmes pushed back the frill of black lace which fringed the hand that lay upon our visitor 's knee .
i assure you that it was all a mystery to him as it is to you and to all of us .
she had small round , hanging gold earrings , and a general air of being fairly well to do in a vulgar , comfortable , easy going way .
we were ushered into a small chamber where a police inspector noted down our prisoner 's name and the names of the men with whose murder he had been charged .
fastened but there are steps on the sill .
this is my intimate friend and associate , dr watson , before whom you can speak as freely as before myself .
do not ask me for particulars .
well , that 's true enough , ' said he .
we never saw the hound .
when i had succeeded in dissolving the hydrocarbon which i was at work at , i came back to our problem of the sholtos , and thought the whole matter out again .
i even took a pencil and jotted them down .
an hour later , when we entered the house , we found him stretched dead drunk upon the dining room sofa .
wait a bit though ,
on the table stood a dark lantern with the shutter half open , throwing a brilliant beam of light upon the iron safe , the door of which was ajar .
when you see him , ask him if he remembers the jefferson hopes of st .
i cried ,
holmes gave an ejaculation of impatience .
yet there they sat , driven clean mad with terror , and brenda lying dead of fright , with her head hanging over the arm of the chair .
when i made my way round there i found him seated at one of the corner eaves .
it was the sight of that which started me on it .
now come up into the garret with me for a moment .
you have yourself supplied the rest .
i stood up and examined the rocky wall behind me .
the thing always appears to me to be so ridiculously simple that i could easily do it myself , though at each successive instance of your reasoning i am baffled until you explain your process .
what a yell he gave !
there is a train at half past nine ,
the younger man sat over yonder he knocked his ash off against the chest of drawers .
well , we reckoned we 'd strike another river soon , d ' ye see .
would you mind touching the bell ?
he has a high opinion of you and thought that you were the one man in london who could help him .
it is now necessary that we should try to throw some light upon this third bullet , which has clearly , from the splintering of the wood , been fired from inside the room .
then we must take that as our working hypothesis .
and the pay ?
the figure of a woman was silhouetted against the yellow light of the hall .
good morning .
the treasure is gone !
they each led into an empty room , dusty and cheerless , with two windows in the one and one in the other , so thick with dirt that the evening light glimmered dimly through them .
i laughed as i saw it , and held lucy 's marriage ring in front of his eyes .
but i know nothing about hardware .
i have information that the most powerful and richest organizations in this state have bound themselves together for our destruction , and that at this very moment there is a pinkerton detective , one birdy edwards , at work in the valley collecting the evidence which may put a rope round the necks of many of us , and send every man in this room into a felon 's cell .
vox populi , vox dei .
every inch of it .
i killed them quick , but they are killing me slow and if i have another night of it i shall be either mad or dead before morning .
the secretary , mr joseph stangerson ,
as it is , both have to go wrong before any harm comes from it .
mcmurdo turned away and refused to speak with him .
this professor that i 've heard you mention ?
i shall be happy to look into it and to give you such advice as i can ,
well , then , tonight ?
in his hand he held a blue cricket cap with a white chevron on the peak .
is probably familiar to your ears .
that he should appear only at that point ?
well , he went a bit woozy towards the end .
ah , that , of course , would be different .
but i am so glad that you have come , holmes .
it is unfortunately more than possible it is certain .
if it was circulated among them that i had made a severe example of the lady eva , i should find all of them much more open to reason .
so i had my key to the secrets of the establishment .
i implore you to be careful , watson .
with the shock , his broad brimmed hat flew from his head , his cravat slipped down from his lips , and there were the long light beard and the soft , handsome delicate features of colonel valentine walter .
come , mr holmes , it 's up to you to give us a lead , since you say mr white mason 's theory is unconvincing .
i settled myself down in the corner of the carriage and read it very carefully .
it was grand to hear you .
it has been considered artistic .
that was the reason of his going .
let me introduce you ,
it was a bleak and boisterous night and the wind whistled shrilly down the long street .
and speaking low ?
it is a curious collection .
in the road stood our horse and trap , with the half clad stable boy waiting at the head .
so far as your efforts are directed towards the suppression of crime , sir , they must have the support of every reasonable member of the community , though i cannot doubt that the official machinery is amply sufficient for the purpose .
i had raised my hat and was about to make some explanatory remark when her own words turned all my thoughts into a new channel .
there were only four stationers of any consequences in the town , and at each holmes produced his pencil chips , and bid high for a duplicate .
they are coming from work in the yard .
they are really islands cut off on all sides by the impassable mire , which has crawled round them in the course of years .
you 've heard about me , mr holmes ,
two days later he received a bulky envelope , which contained a short note from the detective , and a typewritten document , which covered several pages of foolscap .
i think , gentlemen ,
why , brother morris , we 'll have to elect you bodymaster yet for you 've surely saved the lodge .
you had reason to believe he would not live long .
well , since you ask me , i spent , as i told you that i would , some hours last night at the manor house .
under his broad brimmed black felt hat , which he had not troubled to remove , a handsome face with fierce , domineering eyes and a curved hawk bill of a nose looked savagely at the pair who sat by the stove .
i should not ask it of you if i did not think you a quite exceptional woman .
great heavens , if we are too late !
the cries of the foul birds awoke the two sleepers who stared about them in bewilderment .
i thought he was joking , for the view was sordid enough , but he soon explained himself .
stapleton 's first idea was that this young stranger from canada might possibly be done to death in london without coming down to devonshire at all .
what can be the meaning of this ?
puzzle as i would , i could make nothing at all of what it meant .
that done , we rose to our feet breathless and panting .
this morning the last steps were taken , and three days only were wanted to complete the business .
his car passed ours .
how do you know that ?
i have had an opportunity of examining yours , and i do not find that slight discolouration which the scratch made upon the varnish would have produced .
that and a tooth brush are , i think , all that we need .
there are objections to the joke theory , no doubt ,
i guess we are aiding and abetting a felony , watson ?
in the present state of siam it is most awkward that i should be away from the office .
you and i have had our differences , but you have said the true word to night .
what am i to do ?
then how do you account for that ?
he was summoned once for a savage assault upon the old vicar , who had called upon him to remonstrate with him upon his conduct .
what sort of a menage is it which pays double the market price for a governess but does not keep a horse , although six miles from the station ?
i could see , from hopkins 's face , that he never had , but holmes was keenly interested .
what do you say , dear ?
well , i do not know that this place contains any secret which we have not already fathomed .
finally he shot out his terrible news .
i suppose that i am commuting a felony , but it is just possible that i am saving a soul .
i have looked into this case with some care , and i am not convinced that you are on the right lines .
you have no right to ask such questions !
but if you will leave me to find my own way , i will try to prepare a way of getting honourably out of it .
it was strange among so many sad and weary faces to see one which was full of energy and resolution .
what say you to it , sahib ?
a walk of five minutes took us to cross street , where miss cushing resided .
i cannot tell you the loathing and horror with which this insignificant looking man inspired me .
she rallied however , on drinking a glass of water which i quietly poured out for her from a venetian carafe upon the side table .
he continued , handing a paper over to me ,
bar fencing and boxing i had few athletic tastes , and then my line of study was quite distinct from that of the other fellows , so that we had no points of contact at all .
he might .
there 's two of us , me and my son , and you can have the keeping of us .
her poor , dear master had certainly been murdered .
i had noticed for some time that when gorgiano came to us , as he constantly did , in the evening , he spoke much to me and even when his words were to my husband those terrible , glaring , wild beast eyes of his were always turned upon me .
you would throw over one that has stood by you this five years in favour of a man that you never saw before in your life ?
many a wayfarer upon the high road which ran by ferrier 's farm felt long forgotten thoughts revive in their mind as they watched her lithe girlish figure tripping through the wheatfields , or met her mounted upon her father 's mustang , and managing it with all the ease and grace of a true child of the west .
i 'm brother john mcmurdo , lodge , chicago .
i left him there , the safe open , and the papers made up in packets upon the table .
he quickly restored it to his secret pocket , but not before it had been observed by a working man who had seated himself upon the adjoining bench .
as i glanced up from reading this enigmatical message , i saw holmes chuckling at the expression upon my face .
drive me to halliday 's private hotel , ' said he .
that , unfortunately , is what i cannot tell you .
my good hopkins , i have investigated many crimes , but i have never yet seen one which was committed by a flying creature .
the two women had nothing to take them from the house .
i think it was before your time , watson .
as it is an open secret that the duke of balmoral has been compelled to sell his pictures within the last few years , and as lord st .
they were all bought by the west gilmerton general mining company .
i have a box for ' les huguenots .
he had one big brown bag with him nothing else .
just make a few alterations in that report which you were writing , and they will understand how hard it is to throw dust in the eyes of inspector lestrade .
it is hardly a subject for pleasantry .
i have no doubt that you have hit upon the truth .
she would like advice , but is not sure that the matter is not too delicate for communication .
i think also that the probability is in favour of his being a country practitioner who does a great deal of his visiting on foot .
might give him time to perpetrate some fresh atrocity .
no , i must prepare you by showing you how we all stand to each other .
and now , since last monday , there has suddenly sprung up a barrier between us , and i find that there is something in her life and in her thought of which i know as little as if she were the woman who brushes by me in the street .
who by ?
i have had a charming morning .
and it arrived very speedily ?
maybe it 's the thought of my poor little woman and the children that makes me one .
too late , watson , too late !
but you can know nothing of this ?
and now i will show you what is really a very interesting study , mr windibank ,
the pressure of public opinion can do in the town what the law cannot accomplish .
at the same time ,
from his pocket stanley hopkins drew a small paper packet .
but if i am not mistaken i hear him upon the stair , so we shall have something more interesting than his pipe to study .
that is not tobias gregson 's way of going to work .
heavens !
that also i have arranged , mr holmes .
worn with pain , and weak from the prolonged hardships which i had undergone , i was removed , with a great train of wounded sufferers , to the base hospital at peshawar .
this must be preserved , for it will figure in the trial ,
it 's a dog ,
i found that he had been in command of a whaler which was due to return from the arctic seas at the very time when my father was crossing to norway .
if this man were inside it i should find out from his own lips , at the point of my revolver if necessary , who he was and why he had dogged us so long .
at this point there are several trails which lead to various mines .
that was all which i intended to convey .
i told her that since i had seen her i was in no hurry to leave it , and that if she really wanted me to go , the only way to work it was for her to arrange to go with me .
i had a little talk with old cunningham afterwards as to the motive of the crime .
take my advice , and drive down to the station to report this matter to the police .
exactly .
a masterpiece .
you work your own method , and i shall work mine .
he nearly fainted at the sudden shock of it but he bit his lip and clenched his hands to hide his agony .
yes , sir but he was off like a deer after the shot that killed poor william kirwan was fired .
the moment i looked at my table , i was aware that someone had rummaged among my papers .
she left this morning with her husband by the : train from charing cross for the continent .
now , bannister , will you please tell us the truth about yesterday 's incident ?
as i passed the corner which leads from bentinck street on to the welbeck street crossing a two horse van furiously driven whizzed round and was on me like a flash .
if , on the other hand , as i fancy is more likely , the inmates were warned of your coming , and left before you entered yesterday , then they may be back now , and we should clear it all up easily .
he distrusted his wife ever since she had refused to help him in laying a trap for the old man , and he dared not leave her long out of his sight for fear he should lose his influence over her .
thought i .
he slipped an emerald snake ring from his finger and held it out upon the palm of his hand .
it 's a very bad definition , but it does apply to detective work .
the young stranger 's bold gray eyes looked back fearlessly through their glasses at the deadly black ones which turned sharply upon him .
well , if you were to pull down a bell rope , watson , where would you expect it to break ?
well , i do n't profess to understand it yet .
certainly not .
how could he claim it without causing suspicion and inquiry ?
she cried .
the old one was just a good woman , the second was a devil , and the third was an angel .
even more culpable in my opinion , your grace , is your attitude towards your younger son .
we will pass that .
my word is always as good as yours .
he then had it returned and obtained another a most instructive incident , since it proved conclusively to my mind that we were dealing with a real hound , as no other supposition could explain this anxiety to obtain an old boot and this indifference to a new one .
some of them pointed at me , and a couple of bullets sang past my head so i broke away across the paddy fields , and found myself late at night safe within the walls at agra .
do you mean to say all our sympathy was wasted and your fit an imposture ?
he has spoken to me once or twice over lodge matters , and though he may not see them the same as you or i , he never seemed the sort that squeals .
you do not imagine that if i were the pursuer i should allow myself to be baffled by so slight an obstacle .
i can afford to laugh , because i know that i will be even with them in the long run .
i believe you are a man of your word , and a white man , and i 'll tell you the whole story .
at that hour we shall be with you , and it will not be long before we solve the mystery .
i would not brawl in the presence of death , but i can assure you that if i were a younger man your monstrous conduct would not pass with impunity .
what do you know , pray , of tapanuli fever ?
and you , lestrade , could you favour us with your company for an hour or two ?
exactly .
the diagram upon it appears to be a plan of part of a large building with numerous halls , corridors , and passages .
this gentleman , mr staunton 's friend , was referred to me by scotland yard .
it is dead .
well , about victor savage 's death .
this may account also for the obvious fact that his wife has ceased to love him .
i will begin my research by going round and finding if each of them is at his post .
who are you that you should take it on yourself to ask such things ?
yes , sir , she was a well grown young woman .
then i have to bustle about and see things with my own eyes .
the man who had addressed us mounted to the box , while we took our places inside .
it is a pleasure to see anyone appreciate them so .
only that you have disarranged our little deductions .
what a strange place !
even his voice was gentle .
he had it in his head that the affair had been exaggerated , and that it would blow over as suddenly as it had sprung up .
tut , you will find that i have not forgotten old times , ' cried mr trevor , and , walking towards the sailor , he said something in a low voice .
can you make anything of the inscription , ames ?
his son , you see , had grown up , and so had my girl , and as i was known to be in weak health , it seemed a fine stroke to him that his lad should step into the whole property .
beyond the fact that he was a middle sized man and dressed in some dark stuff , we have no personal clue but we are making energetic inquiries , and if he is a stranger we shall soon find him out .
no , your boy had been observed , and that gave me a guide where to look .
the only remaining point was what they were burrowing for .
it is the centre for a considerable area of country , since tunbridge wells , the nearest place of importance , is ten or twelve miles to the eastward , over the borders of kent .
i say that he would have proposed such a bargain to me , but he did not actually do so , for events moved too quickly for him , and he had not time to put his plans into practice .
all this we sealed by the most solemn oaths that the mind could think or the lips utter .
i have only one thing , ' he said , ' which weighs upon my mind at this supreme moment .
d ' that should be a guide .
he looked at me with a last long , questioning gaze , and then , pressing my hand in a cold , dank grasp , he hurried from the room .
how long is it ?
for the rest sic the man 's life moved in a narrow and conventional circle , for his habits were quiet and his nature unemotional .
inspector baynes 's small eyes twinkled with pleasure .
my astonishment was increased when the incident occurred again , exactly as before , on the following saturday and monday .
i am indeed pleased to hear that you did not intend to profit by your unfair advantage ,
i bought it in your presence from the owner and there it lies .
cried young drebber
by the way , a propos of this norwood business , you see that they had , as i surmised , a confederate in the house , who could be none other than lal rao , the butler : so jones actually has the undivided honor of having caught one fish in his great haul .
on the very day that i saw him last he cut himself in the bedroom , and yet i in the dining room rushed upstairs instantly with the utmost certainty that something had happened .
now , what did you gather from that woman 's appearance ?
i thought it was his ghost at first but when i looked again there he was still , with a kind of question in his eyes , as if to ask me whether i were glad or sorry to see him .
there is no cover at all .
folk who were in grief came to my wife like birds to a light house .
it 's fine !
an instant later he pulled me back into the blackest corner of the room , and i felt his warning hand upon my lips .
hush , my brother is coming !
oh surely if you consider the events at first they can only point to one conclusion .
the least that you owe her is to make it clear to the whole world that she was in no way , directly or indirectly , responsible for his tragic end .
of course , it is obvious that it is music .
is all ready for sir henry ?
he appears to have walked away swiftly in the direction of the vicarage .
hence things which have perplexed you and made the case more obscure , have served to enlighten me and to strengthen my conclusions .
it is easy to see that your experience has been no common one , mr hatherley ,
as i have reason to believe , however , that the full facts have never been revealed to the general public , and as my friend sherlock holmes had a considerable share in clearing the matter up , i feel that no memoir of him would be complete without some little sketch of this remarkable episode .
since the tragic upshot of our visit to devonshire he had been engaged in two affairs of the utmost importance , in the first of which he had exposed the atrocious conduct of colonel upwood in connection with the famous card scandal of the nonpareil club , while in the second he had defended the unfortunate mme .
the postmaster , who was also the village grocer , had a clear recollection of the telegram .
never have i seen my friend more completely taken aback than by the cabman 's reply .
and what would he have done had he overtaken us ?
the broad street was churned up by the traffic into a horrible rutted paste of muddy snow .
that 's audley court in there ,
i have no doubt that this woman had plunged him over head and ears in debt , and so led him into this miserable plot .
i had given two taps and oberstein had come to the door .
down that long valley there was at least a certain gloomy grandeur in the huge fires and the clouds of drifting smoke , while the strength and industry of man found fitting monuments in the hills which he had spilled by the side of his monstrous excavations .
you would have done better to have trusted your wife .
suppose i try my luck upon the bicycle ?
it was nothing .
no , indeed !
excellent .
our visitor glanced with some apparent surprise at the languid , lounging figure of the man who had been no doubt depicted to him as the most incisive reasoner and most energetic agent in europe .
i 'll give you something to think over between now and then .
no , i could not sleep ,
but about this stranger ,
thank you , sir that will , indeed , be a weight off my mind .
the landlord pricked up his ears .
he is older than arthur , a man of the world to his finger tips , one who had been everywhere , seen everything , a brilliant talker , and a man of great personal beauty .
however , it is just as well that you should all hear the instructions .
somebody killed the man , and whoever it was i could clearly prove to you that he should have done it some other way .
you put chalk there when you play billiards , to steady the cue .
if you continue to show zeal and intelligence you will find the company a good master .
an injured lady , half a million in treasure , a black cannibal , and a wooden legged ruffian .
i do not know how the bank can thank you or repay you .
miss roylott , you have not .
best of all would it be if you could come down to us .
using him roughly , anyway .
no , no , the yew alley is on the other side .
holmes rose from his chair .
at the same moment the wooden legged man threw himself upon the rudder and put it hard down , so that his boat made straight in for the southern bank , while we shot past her stern , only clearing her by a few feet .
we have no less than four witnesses as to who it was who took advantage of the opportunity , and so , mr barker , i think the word lies now with you .
no doubt you are right , and it is unreasonable for us to expect you to act unless we give you our entire confidence .
i went out about mid day to transact some business in oxford street .
they had spent the morning raking among the ashes of the burned wood pile , and besides the charred organic remains they had secured several discoloured metal discs .
yes , sir , i waited to see if there was an answer .
when we descended i followed holmes into the stable yard , where he opened the door of a loose box and led out a squat , lop eared , white and tan dog , something between a beagle and a foxhound .
except that !
yes , guv'nor ,
where have you dropped from ?
i could not help it ,
so far as i can see , it is just as tangled a business as ever i handled , and yet at first it seemed so simple that one could n't go wrong .
before turning to those moral and mental aspects of the matter which present the greatest difficulties , let the enquirer begin by mastering more elementary problems let him , on meeting a fellow mortal , learn at a glance to distinguish the history of the man , and the trade or profession to which he belongs .
the features are given to man as the means by which he shall express his emotions , and yours are faithful servants .
villain !
one condition mentioned in the ritual would then be fulfilled .
every day of that voyage i loved her more , and many a time since have i kneeled down in the darkness of the night watch and kissed the deck of that ship because i knew her dear feet had trod it .
it is the famous old jacobean grange of high gable , one mile on the farther side of oxshott , and less than half a mile from the scene of the tragedy .
williamson is a white bearded man , and he lives alone with a small staff of servants at the hall .
did you find nothing in the room which could furnish a clue to the murderer ?
the whole course of events ,
and your friend was closely related ?
oh , he gives no trouble .
i argued that the man was probably in london , and that he would desire to leave the country for a time .
the state of his health was not a matter in which he himself took the faintest interest , for his mental detachment was absolute , but he was induced at last , on the threat of being permanently disqualified from work , to give himself a complete change of scene and air .
in the fading light i could see that the centre was a heavy block of building from which a porch projected .
to morrow we play oxford .
sherlock holmes had opened his mouth to reply , when the door flew open , and peterson , the commissionaire , rushed into the apartment with flushed cheeks and the face of a man who is dazed with astonishment .
you remember that i asked whether whisky and brandy were in the cabin .
you imagine i am connected with the death of captain peter carey .
i saw holmes and hopkins exchange a quick glance .
master has locked himself in and will not answer me ,
there was a sound as if he was shaking the dying man , and it was all that i could do to hold myself quiet in my hiding place .
it is seven hundred a year .
you may argue but i have too much respect for your judgment , watson , to think that you will do so that the ring may have been taken before the man was killed .
i was convinced that it was an invitation which he would not refuse , since he could never imagine that it could come from anyone but the lady .
he has been my ruin and my downfall .
about ten minutes later a knock came at the door , and here we made the one serious mistake for which i blame myself .
i am willing to forget those which are passed if you will promise that there shall be no more in the future .
it is singular that on this particular night he should have been up .
as we watched him he looked across at a boy who was bawling out the latest edition of the evening paper , and running over among the cabs and busses , he bought one from him .
the baker street irregulars
is there no clue there ?
the gravity of both their faces foretold some weighty quest .
he lay back without wincing , though he bit his lip from time to time .
barrymore has been coaching me in them , and i think i can say my lessons fairly well .
stop the horse !
well , if you want reasons , i 'll give them .
very likely .
holmes leaned over his shoulder and passed both hands over his neck .
but suddenly a little chill of doubt came upon me .
what could be the reason of his overpowering terror ?
and yet , you see , i am here .
these girls !
inquiries have shown that his ministers know nothing of the matter .
but might be recognized as proofs ?
holmes entered on tiptoe , waited for me to follow , and then very gently closed the door .
they were bosom friends , those two , and never far apart .
if not , i should much prefer to communicate with you alone .
he had been out with his serving man in the morning at ross , and he had told the man that he must hurry , as he had an appointment of importance to keep at three .
by no means .
my companion was in the best of spirits , and prattled away about cremona fiddles , and the difference between a stradivarius and an amati .
i saw in the gaslight that holmes wore an amused smile at this brilliant departure of mine .
the fault from what i hear may not have been entirely on one side .
it was littered with books and papers , and was evidently used as a study .
you are very near your end , holmes .
well , it was up there .
you have no reason to think it was criminal ?
you may possibly remember that you chaffed me a little , some hours ago , when the sun seemed on your side of the hedge , so you must not grudge me a little pomp and ceremony now .
do you mean that your wife and you wish to leave ?
quite .
has a duplicate key been found in his possession ?
it shows me very clearly the state of your own nerves .
what is this ?
come with me , father , and see where he has got to !
donnithorpe is a little hamlet just to the north of langmere , in the country of the broads .
holmes looked swiftly round .
your grace can hardly have heard of any small reputation which i possess , or you would not imagine that it is so easy to escape me .
as i stood there , imagine my surprise , mr holmes , when the door suddenly opened and my wife walked out .
still pulling at my sleeve , she led me away from the cottage .
in a quarter of an hour or so we were back at the physician 's house .
you do n't seem quite to have made up your mind whether it 's a case for a policeman or a clergyman .
is a very simple one .
i have every hope that the company may accommodate you .
yes , i saw you then .
somebody 's initials , maybe .
good heavens !
from one of these i picked a battle axe , and then , leaving my candle behind me , i crept on tiptoe down the passage and peeped in at the open door .
i confess ,
i took it up gingerly and held it in the light of the lantern .
and that third person could only have come in through the window .
those hectic spots were more pronounced , the eyes shone more brightly out of darker hollows , and a cold sweat glimmered upon his brow .
yes , i saw him at his work .
you can see for yourselves that some one is there .
mr melas is a greek by extraction , as i understand , and he is a remarkable linguist .
mrs barclay turned as white as death , and would have fallen down had the dreadful looking creature not caught hold of her .
i was among these last , but my term was not for life .
this would explain it .
well , though i had her heart , her father was set upon her marrying barclay .
and yet i can n't get out of doing business with him indeed , he is here at my invitation .
this little conundrum came by the first post , and he was to follow by the next train .
she was of welsh blood , fiery and passionate .
above the dark and often scarcely penetrable woods upon their flanks , the high , bare crowns of the mountains , white snow , and jagged rock towered upon each flank , leaving a long , winding , tortuous valley in the centre .
would it not be well in the first place to get rid of this barrymore couple ?
but this maid , alice , as i understand , deposes that she went to her room , covered her bride 's dress with a long ulster , put on a bonnet , and went out .
you see ?
you know me now for what i am .
excellent !
or was it an accident ?
but his meals ?
the woodwork was cut , and the scratches showed white through the paint , as if they had been that instant done .
no , no , there 's life in him !
i wonder if the death was natural , or whether the poor old fellow killed himself !
the trap drove on , and a few minutes later we saw a sudden light spring up among the trees as the lamp was lit in one of the sitting rooms
his incredible untidiness , his addiction to music at strange hours , his occasional revolver practice within doors , his weird and often malodorous scientific experiments , and the atmosphere of violence and danger which hung around him made him the very worst tenant in london .
i will tell you , then , in a few words the character of the three men who inhabit these rooms the lower of the three is gilchrist , a fine scholar and athlete , plays in the rugby team and the cricket team for the college , and got his blue for the hurdles and the long jump .
it has been a pretty business for me !
he was approaching the door of the house , when it opened , and a little , curly headed lad of six came running out , followed by a stoutish , red faced woman with a large sponge in her hand .
i cried .
mcginty laughed .
be in your chamber then at that hour , and do not take it amiss if your visitor wear a mask .
there were one or two questions
come , watson , i do n't think we shall be wanted in aldershot any more .
can we forever live
so we watch him and we wait for the time to admonish him .
lestrade , allow me to present you with your principal missing witness , mr jonas oldacre .
augustine .
and yet , with a little more material , we may prove that they are not insurmountable ,
there is a complete absence of motive .
i 'll never forget how you lectured us all on causes and inferences and effects in the bishopgate jewel case .
our own door flew open , and a lady , clad in some dark coloured stuff , with a black veil , entered the room .
the man was an intermittent drunkard , and when he had the fit on him he was a perfect fiend .
but i have never seen a place to compare with it .
we 'll teach these magnates that they cannot ride roughshod over the rights of the commoners , confound them !
very possibly !
i 'm thinking that the time is drawing near .
it was furnished partly as a sitting and partly as a bedroom , with flowers arranged daintily in every nook and corner .
was it possible that it was barrymore , after all , whom we had seen in the cab in regent street ?
that is the man who is after me to night watson , and that is the man who is quite unaware that we are after him .
what has the villain been doing here ?
it certainly needs a good deal of justification .
i confess that the guilt of the banker 's son appeared to me to be as obvious as it did to his unhappy father , but still i had such faith in holmes ' judgment that i felt that there must be some grounds for hope as long as he was dissatisfied with the accepted explanation .
may i ask if he is going to honour us with a visit himself ?
i can n't get away for all i have in the world is in my store .
i cried .
cried our prisoner ,
quiet , sir a long mantle down to her feet .
and stealing his private papers .
sarasate plays at the st .
well , certainly that would agree with his being found a little later asleep in his chair .
that will fetch him sure .
he was very much moved , and shut himself up in the study all day , where i could see through the window that he was writing busily .
certainly not without your permission .
that is the clue which they are already following , mr holmes , and i know that it leads infallibly to me .
it was a good sized hammer which had been lying on the rug in front of the fireplace a substantial , workmanlike hammer .
my first impulse was , of course , to call for assistance but i could not but recognize that there was every chance that i would be accused of his murder .
then i can wait in the next room .
what 's v .
god forgive me , i feared that i should lose you , and i had not the courage to tell you .
you have furnished me with seven , but , of course , i must test them before i can pronounce upon their value .
toby has lost his character for infallibility .
his words were quiet , but he had a rasping way of saying them which was very menacing .
immediately after breakfast .
what have i ever said or done that you should think i would be after standing back from an order of the bodymaster of my own lodge ?
your nerve , walters ?
this looks bad ,
you are two friends of mine who are in want of a billet , and what could be more natural than that i should bring you both round to the managing director ?
get into this hollow , lestrade .
am i right ?
then he might have called to you ?
mcmurdo rose in his place and raised his hand .
you have n't seen any of them ?
that is true ,
splendid , holmes !
i lowered my handkerchief and glanced at mrs rucastle to find her eyes fixed upon me with a most searching gaze .
the horse and trap were to have come this week , but for some reason they were not delivered , and again i had to cycle to the station .
cried holmes in high glee , rubbing his hands together with satisfaction .
my second and wisest one is to play my own game and speak as little as possible to anyone .
he saluted and stood sailor fashion , turning his cap round in his hands .
on the second day he told her that he loved her , and from then onward he repeated the same story with an absolute disregard of what she might say to discourage him .
you know my methods , watson .
the idea of a snake instantly occurred to me , and when i coupled it with my knowledge that the doctor was furnished with a supply of creatures from india , i felt that i was probably on the right track .
it would only have been rigid justice if i had done so , but i could not bring myself to do it .
it 's your first , is it not ?
to do so would be to descend to the level of these poor peasants , who are not content with a mere fiend dog but must needs describe him with hell fire shooting from his mouth and eyes .
all these considerations led me to the irresistible conclusion that jefferson hope was to be found among the jarveys of the metropolis .
do you see any clue ?
we ran and ran until we were completely blown , but the space between us grew ever wider .
cried holmes .
it was suggested , but never proved , that the deceased gentleman may have had valuables in the house , and that their abstraction was the motive of the crime .
fuller knowledge of the organization which produced such terrible results served to increase rather than to lessen the horror which it inspired in the minds of men .
this is your doing , small ,
dundee , i suppose ?
all right ,
i will come and claim you then , my darling .
that night he went out as usual for his nocturnal walk , in the course of which he was in the habit of smoking a cigar .
it was two in the morning before they came to the lonely house .
you still smoke the arcadia mixture of your bachelor days then !
i succeeded but at what a cost !
it was his suggestion that i should come round to you , and of course i at once saw the propriety of it , for certainly the incident is a very singular one , though he appears to completely overrate its importance .
besides , remember that she had resolved to use it within a few days .
i ought to know its size and shape , seeing that i have read the advertisement about it in the times every day lately .
i was never a friend to you nor any other cursed copper in my life ,
good lord !
mcmurdo 's coat had been brought to him but before putting it on he examined his right arm , which still smarted heavily .
unfortunately for her , she had lost her glasses in the scuffle , and as she was extremely short sighted she was really helpless without them .
not at all ,
it was already opened , and hunter was seated at the small table inside .
there were many insignificant sums to individuals , and a large number of public charities .
the room was full of articles of value , but none had been taken .
yes , he hanged himself during the night .
a band of pawnees or of blackfeet may occasionally traverse it in order to reach other hunting grounds , but the hardiest of the braves are glad to lose sight of those awesome plains , and to find themselves once more upon their prairies .
thank you ,
close on the heels of these two famous cases came the tragedy of woodman 's lee , and the very obscure circumstances which surrounded the death of captain peter carey .
his face was more cadaverous than ever , his shoulders had rounded , and he seemed to me to be an altogether older man than he had been the morning before .
the strong , masterful personality of holmes dominated the tragic scene , and all were equally puppets in his hands .
i will tell you exactly what happened upon monday evening .
that ring with the rough nugget on it was above it , and the twisted snake ring on the third finger .
how could you know that ?
i opened my mouth to scream , but he struck me a savage blow with his fist over the eye , and felled me to the ground .
now for the ' eg .
colonel ross met us by appointment outside the station , and we drove in his drag to the course beyond the town .
where 's mary ?
there are marks of blood in the room , but there is no wound upon his person .
she is my right hand .
his quiet self confident manner convinced me that he had already formed a theory which explained all the facts , though what it was i could not for an instant conjecture .
here we may take it that there is a love matter , but that the maiden is not so much angry as perplexed , or grieved .
let us enjoy five minutes of instructive conversation with her .
he had been a scout too , and a trapper , a silver explorer , and a ranchman .
he had spotted the place .
i would also urge that the introduction into the case of a document relating to large masses of valuable securities gives us for the first time some indication of a motive for the crime .
but they were true .
that is easily managed .
his complexion was as swarthy as that of an italian , and his eyes were of a strange dead black , which , combined with a slight squint , gave them a particularly sinister appearance .
very good , ames .
they say that genius is an infinite capacity for taking pains ,
but i will tell you the whole queer business , and when i have done so you will admit , i am sure , that there has been enough to excuse me .
he was once light weight champion of england .
one of our most lucrative means of laying out money is in the shape of loans , where the security is unimpeachable .
he rose and laid a written paper upon a side table .
i went to devonshire with the conviction that fitzroy simpson was the true culprit , although , of course , i saw that the evidence against him was by no means complete .
in all probability the murderer had a florid face , and the finger nails of his right hand were remarkably long .
the statesman received us with that old fashioned courtesy for which he is remarkable , and seated us on the two luxuriant lounges on either side of the fireplace .
you will observe that this line of boats call at belfast , dublin , and waterford so that , presuming that browner had committed the deed and had embarked at once upon his steamer , the may day , belfast would be the first place at which he could post his terrible packet .
you clever , clever fiend !
yes , sir
a sort of tiled veranda extended along one side of it , lined by several windows and two doors .
give them here ,
do n't mind me ,
the surgery , where i used to make up my drugs , was next to his sitting room , with a small window between us .
somebody hurt ?
finally , just as the doctor and the official police put in an appearance , he beckoned to the vicar and we all three went out upon the lawn .
he slipped into the first room that he saw , and concealed himself behind the curtain .
there is nothing at all , sir
his first act was to establish himself as near to his ancestral home as he could , and his second was to cultivate a friendship with sir charles baskerville and with the neighbours .
the door is locked , the window is inaccessible .
almost immediately after you left .
this very door ,
we also know that he could not have been concealed in the room , as there is no concealment possible .
we shall expect you early to morrow , and when you get that signal book through the little door on the duke of york 's steps you can put a triumphant finis to your record in england .
it ended at the paving of asphalt which led up to the gates of the mapleton stables .
but barker 's story is corroborated by mrs douglas .
i have no reason to be ashamed of it .
they are sprightly very sprightly ,
my god !
here is my will ,
apart from their size , though .
never have i seen features so deeply marked with all bestiality and cruelty .
this unexpected occurrence ,
that same afternoon , as mcmurdo sat smoking , lost in thought beside the stove of his sitting room , the door swung open and its framework was filled with the huge figure of boss mcginty .
it is our duty to clear him of this dreadful and unfounded charge .
i had lost my hold on black peter and was stranded in london without a shilling .
you have erred , perhaps ,
i think we might employ it in getting some dinner and then , lestrade , we will take the london fog out of your throat by giving you a breath of the pure night air of dartmoor .
besides , i owed you a little mystification , lestrade , for your chaff in the morning .
no , sir nothing seemed to have been touched .
what are we to do ?
listen to this :
every word i said to make things better was taken as treason , same as it was last night .
we had a license for the marriage .
an instant later it was hurriedly replaced , and i caught a glimpse of a dark , beautiful , horrified face glaring at the narrow opening of the box room .
i have established a right of way through the centre of old middleton 's park , slap across it , sir , within a hundred yards of his own front door .
i think that we are both agreed , inspector that the fragment of paper in the dead man 's hand , bearing , as it does , the very hour of his death written upon it , is of extreme importance .
i have seen something of the sort on the side of a hill near ballarat , where the prospectors had been at work .
take a good look at him for he is worth it .
williamson and woodley were both tried for abduction and assault , the former getting seven years the latter ten .
but i would not have touched a hair of her pretty head .
that any civilized human being in this nineteenth century should not be aware that the earth travelled round the sun appeared to be to me such an extraordinary fact that i could hardly realize it .
and there was henry staunton , whom i helped to hang , but godfrey staunton is a new name to me .
take that , you hound and that !
you may well ask me why , under these circumstances , i still kept james under my roof .
these with their master and mistress were the sole occupants of lachine , for the barclays had no children , nor was it usual for them to have resident visitors .
when you see a man with whiskers of that cut and the ' pink ' un ' protruding out of his pocket , you can always draw him by a bet ,
gregson had a stretcher and four men at hand .
there were no signs of violence upon any of these garments , and there were no other traces of mr neville st .
holmes crouched down behind the screen of laurels , and we all three followed his example .
his conclusions were as infallible as so many propositions of euclid .
he was a very tall young man , golden moustached , blue eyed , with a skin which had been burned by tropical suns , and a springy step , which showed that the huge frame was as active as it was strong .
i 've had a bustling afternoon , i promise you .
his strong will and untiring energy should , he determined , be devoted to that one end .
can i speak with you freely , mr mcmurdo ?
no , he has not been seen .
hullo !
i have already explained that the testimony of the postmaster shows that the test was worthless and that we have no proof one way or the other .
have you yesterday 's times , watson ?
when the rajah put his jewels into the hands of achmet he did it because he knew that he was a trusty man .
did you happen to observe a picture over the professor 's head ?
then something suddenly snapped , and your son , finding that he had the coronet in his hands , rushed back , closed the window , ascended to your room , and had just observed that the coronet had been twisted in the struggle and was endeavouring to straighten it when you appeared upon the scene .
but who is he ?
he plays the game .
it is likely that the musgrave who held the secret died in the interval , and by some oversight left this guide to his descendant without explaining the meaning of it .
you seem to expect company .
he brought up a card , too , with the name of ' colonel lysander stark ' engraved upon it .
i will take the black clay with me , also the pencil cuttings .
it is very curious and complex , watson .
and with that i sketched out to him the whole long chain of surmise and of proof which i had constructed .
it was indeed like old times when , at that hour , i found myself seated beside him in a hansom , my revolver in my pocket , and the thrill of adventure in my heart .
you must know , that though i am a bachelor , i have to keep up a considerable staff of servants at hurlstone , for it is a rambling old place , and takes a good deal of looking after .
this bureau consists of a double column of drawers , with a central small cupboard between them .
again i changed my dress , again i sat in the window , and again i laughed very heartily at the funny stories of which my employer had an immense r pertoire , and which he told inimitably .
come , we are getting on , watson .
i tried to put on as unconcerned an air as possible , but i had not forgotten the warnings of the lady , even though i disregarded them , and i kept a keen eye upon my two companions .
in every other direction the low curves of the moor , bronze colored from the fading ferns , stretched away to the sky line , broken only by the steeples of tavistock , and by a cluster of houses away to the westward which marked the mapleton stables .
i caught a glimpse of rushing figures , and a moment later the voice of holmes from within assuring them that it was a false alarm .
if a pinkerton man is deep in this business , we are all destroyed .
up to a certain point he did well .
yes one of my natural enemies , or , shall i say , my natural prey .
the only men worth considering are adolph mayer , of great george street , westminster louis la rothiere , of campden mansions , notting hill and hugo oberstein , caulfield gardens , kensington .
it looks rather old , does it not ?
but he never appeared .
then there was the size of it it was twice yours , sir and the look of it the great staring goggle eyes , and the line of white teeth like a hungry beast .
well , that is part of the risk .
he was talking all the while , and working himself up , no doubt , into a fury .
he was for ever making eyes at me a coarse , puffy faced , red moustached young man , with his hair plastered down on each side of his forehead .
well , a great deal must have soaked through , must it not ?
i am following you closely ,
i have a large correspondence .
so far as i can make out , it is nothing more exciting than an abbey 's accounts dating from the second half of the fifteenth century .
but it is no use , you must fly !
it 's an honour that i had not expected .
there are some points which are as dark as ever .
the traveller at once raised his left hand to his left eyebrow .
i did as he asked , and he put the paper in his pocket .
the long sweep of green water roaring forever down , and the thick flickering curtain of spray hissing forever upward , turn a man giddy with their constant whirl and clamor .
it had been let about a month ago .
this long screw would have transfixed it and drawn it up with a single pull .
stand clear , watson !
he had gone off at a moment 's notice with this stranger , and no word has come from him since .
so much for his recent history as it came out at the inquest .
how do they account for it ?
jonathan wild was n't a detective , and he was n't in a novel .
now i knew that under ordinary conditions he no longer craved for this artificial stimulus , but i was well aware that the fiend was not dead but sleeping , and i have known that the sleep was a light one and the waking near when in periods of idleness i have seen the drawn look upon holmes 's ascetic face , and the brooding of his deep set and inscrutable eyes .
there is nothing like first hand evidence ,
holmes ,
i live at torrington lodge , blackheath , with my parents , mr holmes , but last night , having to do business very late with mr jonas oldacre , i stayed at an hotel in norwood , and came to my business from there .
rance gave a violent jump , and stared at sherlock holmes with the utmost amazement upon his features .
a cigarette glowed amid the tangle of white hair , and the air of the room was fetid with stale tobacco smoke .
the quick eye of my companion had noted some change in her manner .
i 've been taking the signals .
a twitch brought away the tangled red hair , and there , sitting up in his bed , was a pale , sad faced , refined looking man , black haired and smooth skinned , rubbing his eyes and staring about him with sleepy bewilderment .
i suppose it is n't jack knox of ironhill that you are after .
i 'll tell you what i know about effie 's history .
then it was that in my despair and disappointment , after a sleepless night , i came straight to you by the early train .
presumably , then , the young man had one .
he did not turn pale .
ah , colonel !
it was undoubtedly heading away from the school .
by the way ,
he was as quick as she , however , and darted off in desperate flight .
what your trade may be ?
absolutely ,
the box was shut , locked , and returned to the bedroom .
the occasional lamps gleamed on the expanse of muddy road and shining pavement .
he then shortly recapitulated the facts which have already been recorded .
really , mr holmes , i cannot undertake to say .
it was twenty five minutes to twelve , and of course it was clear enough what was in the wind .
i will n't waste your time ,
the first three sensible words that you have uttered since you entered this room , watson .
have you any alternative theory which will meet the facts ?
he was in a pitiable state of reaction , with every nerve in a twitter .
only as a name .
i implored his mercy .
you may set your mind at rest about that .
come here .
we are devil ridden , mr holmes !
pray wait until you have recovered yourself , and then i shall be most happy to look into any little problem which you may submit to me .
it is a little off the beaten track , is n't it ?
to the scientific student of the higher criminal world , no capital in europe offered the advantages which london then possessed .
my first glance is always at a woman 's sleeve .
dear me !
i believe that she is capable of heroic self sacrifice and that anything dishonourable would be repugnant to her .
in front of him he saw , in the gaslight , a tallish man , walking with a slight stagger , and carrying a white goose slung over his shoulder .
lord st .
i have to be careful ,
you coward !
i had not been back to woking between getting the order and executing the commission .
we did not drive up to the door but got down near the gate of the avenue .
i should n't care to hear you say you did .
in mere size and strength it was a terrible creature which was lying stretched before us .
well , you figured it out about right ,
but i am in luck to meet a brother so early .
one moment , dr watson ,
i fear that it will not lead very far .
where did you address your letters , then ?
my body has remained in this armchair and has , i regret to observe , consumed in my absence two large pots of coffee and an incredible amount of tobacco .
my ancestors were country squires , who appear to have led much the same life as is natural to their class .
about twelve o'clock we heard the terrible news .
the story , so far as i can make it out , is like this .
her rosy lips were parted , showing the regular line of snow white teeth within , and a playful smile played over her infantile features .
only for a minute or so .
right , so far ,
when you referred in your ledger to the sale of those casts i observed that the date was june rd of last year .
surely the clearest proof of it is that , knowing what i know , i have sent for you and not for the police .
he was still smiling in the most amiable manner .
do i make myself plain ?
by the way , i had hoped that tonga had lost all his darts yet he managed to shoot one at us in the boat .
i am not a rich man , but if there is any danger threatening my little woman , i would spend my last copper to shield her .
i do n't think any one could make much of this ,
you would not pay .
cried miss hunter .
it was late in the afternoon before i woke , strengthened and refreshed .
that 's the man !
i have carried this because i thought it might be useful ,
he will get on to paris , mark down our luggage , and wait for two days at the depot .
they are all sold now .
the creature instantly broke into a succession of high , tremulous yelps , and , with his nose on the ground , and his tail in the air , pattered off upon the trail at a pace which strained his leash and kept us at the top of our speed .
i travelled in my youth , took to the stage , and finally became a reporter on an evening paper in london .
his duties brought him into daily , personal contact with the plans .
at waterloo we were fortunate in catching a train for leatherhead , where we hired a trap at the station inn and drove for four or five miles through the lovely surrey lanes .
you will be relieved to hear that there will be no war , that the right honourable trelawney hope will suffer no setback in his brilliant career , that the indiscreet sovereign will receive no punishment for his indiscretion , that the prime minister will have no european complication to deal with , and that with a little tact and management upon our part nobody will be a penny the worse for what might have been a very ugly incident .
i really think that you might treat us with more frankness .
it had n't pulled up before she shot out of the hall door and into it .
it is that you ring for the footman and let me give such orders as i like .
no , it certainly is not .
good evening , mr holmes ,
it ran .
she held up one shaking finger to warn me to be silent , and she shot a few whispered words of broken english at me , her eyes glancing back , like those of a frightened horse , into the gloom behind her .
it 's a cold night ,
who shall have it ?
it was the man 's own pouch , sir his initials were inside it .
he spoke one evening of the importance of the secret , and i have some recollection that he said that no doubt foreign spies would pay a great deal to have it .
not a warning will he get till your hand is on his throat .
perhaps you have yourself formed some opinion ?
i shouted in the hall .
hardly on the evidence .
i 'll take it all on myself , as if it were to me that this letter has come .
leave paddington by the : .
the aortic i may rely upon , but i should value your opinion upon the mitral .
he was himself red headed , and he had a great sympathy for all red headed men so when he died it was found that he had left his enormous fortune in the hands of trustees , with instructions to apply the interest to the providing of easy berths to men whose hair is of that colour .
but you were speaking of this man porlock .
through it , as you know , i came into possession of the pills , the existence of which i had already surmised .
is that a place where a shepherd would be likely to take his station ?
he took his meals in his own room , and so was able to give me part of his food .
you have destroyed it !
by the five forty train in the morning he had sent his message to scotland yard , and he was at the birlstone station at twelve o'clock to welcome us .
he knows it already .
one morning , at a little before seven o'clock , i was awakened by the maid tapping at the door to announce that two men had come from paddington and were waiting in the consulting room .
very good .
it 's like my luck !
prendergast then descended into the ' tween decks and with his own hands cut the throat of the unfortunate surgeon .
when i saw that he was absent , i withdrew at once .
this we accomplished by the very obvious device of announcing that the moat would be dried to morrow , which had , of course , the effect that whoever had hidden the bundle would most certainly withdraw it the moment that darkness enabled him to do so .
if the treaty had reached , let us say , the french or russian foreign office , you would expect to hear of it ?
and now on the staff of mawson 's .
his eyes twinkled , and there was even a touch of colour upon his sallow cheeks .
it is my business to find an answer .
he walked for a couple of miles through one ravine after another without success , though from the marks upon the bark of the trees , and other indications , he judged that there were numerous bears in the vicinity .
you see it all exactly as i found it .
well , then , you 've lost your fiver , for it 's town bred ,
then it was that he threw it at me .
godfrey staunton had crammed the note into his pocket .
a couple of hours at day 's music hall in the evening would do you no harm after your labors .
there is nothing more to be learned .
simple !
to day is saturday , and i hope that by monday we may come to a conclusion .
the garden and the stables of course have a separate staff .
his knees were what i wished to see .
he took the corner of the carpet in his hand and , turning it over , he showed that it was indeed as he said .
there was a little shed in the yard , and behind this i drove one of the birds a fine big one , white , with a barred tail .
a fortnight say at least a fortnight !
you 'll have the doing of it in your own hands .
two high , narrow towers rose over the trees .
of course it was of the utmost importance to prevent you from thinking better of it , and also to keep you from coming into contact with any one who might tell you that your double was at work in mawson 's office .
our visitor had gulped off the brandy and the colour had returned to his face .
to me , with my nerves worked up to a pitch of expectancy , there was something depressing and subduing in the sudden gloom , and in the cold dank air of the vault .
it shall be just as you wish .
the baronet stood for a minute looking after them , and then he walked slowly back the way that he had come , his head hanging , the very picture of dejection .
but the matter is so inexplicable , and the recent turn which it has taken is so elaborate , that i shall lay it all before you , and you shall judge what is essential and what is not .
it has been an intellectual treat to me to see the way in which you have grappled with this affair , and i say , unaffectedly , that it would be a grief to me to be forced to take any extreme measure .
a measured step was heard upon the stairs , and a moment later a stout , tall , gray whiskered and solemnly respectable person was ushered into the room .
there was no man , sir
surely that must be the same johnson whom i used to know ,
you can put it that way if you like .
and yet he would not so much as let me touch the tips of her fingers .
in vain the money of the lodge money squeezed by blackmail out of the whole countryside was spent like water in the attempt to save them .
there is nothing left for me to hope for , or to desire .
the brook street business .
i was not sure whether i had left it here or in the shipping office .
i cannot understand , barrymore , how you came to conceal this important information .
try one of the proprietor 's cigars .
one bumper ,
forgery .
who are you ?
i 'd have come through and taken my chance with the three of them , only even as i looked at him his jaw dropped , and i knew that he was gone .
holmes was very serious in his manner , myself curious , and the detectives obviously critical and annoyed .
why , indeed ?
is it suicide , or is it murder that 's our first question , gentlemen , is it not ?
you threw it down , no doubt , at that supreme moment when you charged into the empty hut .
below the bridge there is a perfect labyrinth of landing places for miles .
it was not difficult to tell the direction which she had taken , for , starting from under her window , we could follow her footmarks easily across the lawn to the edge of the mere , where they vanished close to the gravel path which leads out of the grounds .
as i grew richer i grew more ambitious , took a house in the country , and eventually married , without anyone having a suspicion as to my real occupation .
you must not ask me that at the present state of the affair .
if they did we should have them , for every port is watched .
well , he was up in the loft at the time , so that i could not put it into his own hands , but i gave it into mrs barrymore 's hands , and she promised to deliver it at once .
no , your secret lies in london .
he struck out with his hand , and a revolver which the younger man was in the act of cocking clattered down upon the floor .
enough and more than enough ,
individuals vary , but percentages remain constant .
poison ,
jewelry usually descends to the eldest son , and he is most likely to have the same name as the father .
that you do not look with suspicious eyes upon everyone who received a legacy from sir charles , for i also had a thousand pounds left to me .
and the papers ?
i followed you .
he put his hands to his face , and his body shook with convulsive sobs .
you have but to name it .
were the initials of a broker , and that ' c .
your room is at the westville arms there 's no other place but i hear that it is clean and good .
in age he may have been about fifty , with a strong jawed , rugged face , a grizzling moustache , peculiarly keen gray eyes , and a wiry , vigorous figure which had lost nothing of the strength and activity of youth .
he tore the drugget from the floor , and in an instant was down on his hands and knees clawing at each of the squares of wood beneath it .
what were you doing at that window ?
the councillor sprang at him like a tiger .
his dark eyes , glaring out of the white mask of his face , were full of horror and astonishment as he gazed from sir henry to me .
oh , anstruther would do your work for you .
well , watson , what do you make of this ?
i shall be at baker street at ten .
there still remains the cocaine bottle .
there was a candle flickerin ' on the mantelpiece a red wax one and by its light i saw
the stars shone cold and bright , while a half moon bathed the whole scene in a soft , uncertain light .
sit down and let us talk it over .
i have had nothing else to do .
youngish , sir not over thirty .
it was the severity of holmes 's manner and the fact that he slipped a revolver into his pocket before leaving our rooms which impressed me with the feeling that tragedy might prove to lurk behind this curious train of events .
if it please you , she went to the circus last night along with
dr mortimer refolded his paper and replaced it in his pocket .
he has just come from the tropics , for his face is dark , and that is not the natural tint of his skin , for his wrists are fair .
you found something compromising ?
we went down a winding stone stair , and my companion , striking a match , lit a large lantern which stood on a barrel in the corner .
and he made you swear to say nothing about your appointment with sir charles ?
look at the noises on the moor at night .
young mccarthy must be got off , however .
cried holmes , exultantly .
it 's true ,
my nerves tingled with the sense of adventure .
of being concerned in the beating of old editor stanger at the herald office .
the daily news observed that there was no doubt as to the crime being a political one .
all day today the rain poured down , rustling on the ivy and dripping from the eaves .
the girl fled away to the house , but as she ran she looked back and saw that the stranger was leaning through the window .
we will come to that in its turn ,
i 'll wager he took no breakfast this morning , and will n't face his lunch after all the cigarettes i saw him consume .
i shall not keep you more than a few minutes , watson ,
pray sit down , madam .
i think that i have seen now all that there is to see , mr holder ,
he has considerable gifts himself .
my dear holmes ,
is that credible , mr holmes ?
the premier placed his hand kindly upon his shoulder .
all right come if you want to .
right across the enormous plain stretched the straggling array , waggons and carts , men on horseback , and men on foot .
for his own honour stands so high that he could not forget or pardon a lapse in another .
i have been at work upon it all day .
it seems to me , ryder , that there is the making of a very pretty villain in you .
a monkey , then ?
he cried .
it is all very well to talk , but you do n't know how i am placed .
but near the instep there is a small circular wafer of paper with the shopman 's hieroglyphics upon it .
i thought the matter over , and i came to the conclusion that i must approach the case from another aspect .
in course he did ,
he is his own master , and would act as his own judgment directed .
but you saw me go , and that was the beginning of my troubles .
with a final wave of his hand he sprang into the car , and a moment later the two golden cones from the headlights shot through the darkness .
i believe you have some matches in your pocket watson .
but there are eight servants , and all of good character .
it is mrs bernstone ,
it had not crossed my mind however , that he would wish me to go with him , nor could i understand how we could both be absent at a moment which he himself declared to be critical .
she dressed herself hastily , called the maid , and set off for the stables .
with a bitter curse i shook my fist at it as i gazed .
james desmond is an elderly clergyman in westmoreland .
i was glad that he should go , for it seemed to me that he was farther from danger when he was away from home .
but you have one quality which is very rare in a german , mr von bork : you are a sportsman and you will bear me no ill will when you realize that you , who have outwitted so many other people , have at last been outwitted yourself .
i have no doubt he is out now , but he has not dared to show his nose here .
it will probably be necessary for me to see you at the hall ,
it may bear some more innocent interpretation .
mr john hector mcfarlane ?
the reigate puzzle
far away we could hear the deep tones of the parish clock , which boomed out every quarter of an hour .
i had had so many reasons to believe in my friend 's subtle powers of reasoning and extraordinary energy in action that i felt that he must have some solid grounds for the assured and easy demeanour with which he treated the singular mystery which he had been called upon to fathom .
ettie had jumped to her feet full of confusion and alarm .
the point is of the utmost importance as guiding us towards the reason of the sudden quarrel .
in his tweed suit and cloth cap he looked like any other tourist upon the moor , and he had contrived , with that catlike love of personal cleanliness which was one of his characteristics , that his chin should be as smooth and his linen as perfect as if he were in baker street .
it was a quarter to twelve .
is a tall man , left handed , limps with the right leg , wears thick soled shooting boots and a grey cloak , smokes indian cigars , uses a cigar holder , and carries a blunt pen knife in his pocket .
some little time ago i bought a small place a very small place within ten miles of reading .
well , holmes ,
well , we took him on board , this man , and he and the skipper had some long talks in the cabin .
for three days he has been sinking , and i doubt if he will last the day .
and it shone upon something else which turned our hearts sick and faint within us the body of sir henry baskerville !
he is a little before his time .
there was a noise somewhere within the house .
there are my prisons ,
you had forgotten ?
well , i have no connection with any other people who have been making inquiries ,
you will give us time ,
thank you .
come along , and i will personally conduct you .
i have arranged it with the estimable ames , who is by no means wholehearted about barker .
very good .
it was no very unusual thing for mr lestrade , of scotland yard , to look in upon us of an evening , and his visits were welcome to sherlock holmes , for they enabled him to keep in touch with all that was going on at the police headquarters .
save , perhaps , that .
the older man seemed numbed and dazed with a heavy , sullen expression upon his strongly marked face .
i told him that i had come both as judge and executioner .
we 'll see it through if all the fiends of the pit were loose upon the moor .
that is possible .
lestrade looked at his watch .
oh , you mean the little problem of the grosvenor square furniture van .
farewell , then ,
it is quite a three pipe problem , and i beg that you will n't speak to me for fifty minutes .
why , what is there against him ?
dr ferrier had just heard enough from the detective at the station to be able to give an idea of what had happened , and his story did not mend matters .
you are mad !
i did n't grieve over her marriage .
i was two years living it down .
the cellar !
i had often heard of the beauty of the youngest daughter of the duke of belminster , but no description of it , and no contemplation of colourless photographs , had prepared me for the subtle , delicate charm and the beautiful colouring of that exquisite head .
that is true .
everybody was out of town , and i yearned for the glades of the new forest or the shingle of southsea .
i am prepared to leave it with you as my security .
as he glanced down the advertisement column , with his head thrust forward and the paper flattened out upon his knee , i took a good look at the man and endeavoured , after the fashion of my companion , to read the indications which might be presented by his dress or appearance .
do you not find it interesting ?
it was indeed lestrade , who had ascended the stairs while we were talking , and who now entered the room .
he held an old black boot in the air .
the instant that he heard of it he made a complete confession to me , so filled was he with horror and remorse .
i think , watson , a brandy and soda would do him no harm .
he expects to get right down to the end of everything before he leaves .
crime is commonplace , existence is commonplace , and no qualities save those which are commonplace have any function upon earth .
if you use the code which i have explained ,
cried madame charpentier , throwing up her hands and sinking back in her chair .
one evening , shortly after my arrival , we were sitting over a glass of port after dinner , when young trevor began to talk about those habits of observation and inference which i had already formed into a system , although i had not yet appreciated the part which they were to play in my life .
he is a hard man ,
on a certain evening , which had been prearranged , i sent my friend final instructions , for the man was forever on the alert and continually changed his room .
now , i wonder who the deuce that could have been .
the whole river has been searched on either side , but there is no news , nor has mrs smith heard of her husband .
we must have a look at it .
the habit grew upon him , as i understand , from some foolish freak when he was at college for having read de quincey 's description of his dreams and sensations , he had drenched his tobacco with laudanum in an attempt to produce the same effects .
we are bound to go .
but you are joking .
i heard the rasping , laboured breathing of the sick man .
i had neither kith nor kin in england , and was therefore as free as air or as free as an income of eleven shillings and sixpence a day will permit a man to be .
she wore an expression such as i had never seen before such as i should have thought her incapable of assuming .
look at sir charles 's death !
i rubbed one of them on my sleeve , however , and it glowed afterwards like a spark in the dark hollow of my hand .
there i remained until evening , when i set off for woking again , and found myself in the high road outside briarbrae just after sunset .
i must explain first ,
only a few weeks ago she was cleaning out sir charles 's study it had never been touched since his death and she found the ashes of a burned letter in the back of the grate .
beware !
where is the mystery in all this ?
there was dense fog , however , and nothing could be seen .
stay with her !
yes , sir , but very quietly .
in a quarter of an hour we were in bloomsbury at the alpha inn , which is a small public house at the corner of one of the streets which runs down into holborn .
the place we want must be somewhere near that line .
the last link ,
over the wide expanse there was no sound and no movement .
i 've had ups in my life , and i 've had downs , but i 've learned not to cry over spilled milk .
did n't you ask him in ?
he cried .
he was a solicitor and was using my room as a temporary convenience until his new premises were ready .
a cast of your skull , sir , until the original is available , would be an ornament to any anthropological museum .
the trees and wayside hedges were just throwing out their first green shoots , and the air was full of the pleasant smell of the moist earth .
he continued , disregarding my remonstrance .
we have more to tell you than you have for us ,
your fate will be upon your own head .
i do n't know whether you observed my bedroom window ?
what we pay rates and taxes for i do n't know , when any ruffian can come in and break one 's goods .
the county police ought to make something of that ,
i do n't think that we should have much difficulty in determining that , ' said i ' with your permission we will take the first train down to sussex , and go a little more deeply into the matter upon the spot .
they both claim the head money given by the lodge for the shooting of old man crabbe over at stylestown , and who 's to say which fired the bullet ?
it is half past ten now .
promise !
not the inquisition of seville , nor the german vehm gericht , nor the secret societies of italy , were ever able to put a more formidable machinery in motion than that which cast a cloud over the state of utah .
a long journey may enable our friend to recover not only from his shattered nerves but also from his wounded feelings .
having done thus he felt easier in his mind , and returned home with a lighter heart .
the photograph is in a recess behind a sliding panel just above the right bell pull .
what about his luggage ?
the rest you will leave in our hands .
they have taken to a boat here .
therefore , the lady 's eyes are set very near to the sides of the nose .
cried mcmurdo in cold fury .
his age may have been nearer forty than thirty , but his cheeks were so ruddy and his eyes so merry that he still conveyed the impression of a plump and mischievous boy .
one of them in my room , charles gorot , had some arrears of work to make up , so i left him there and went out to dine .
in a former letter he frankly informed me that the name was not his own , and defied me ever to trace him among the teeming millions of this great city .
it cuts into glass as though it were putty .
well , i had to find a job .
louis in , which have suggested to him the true solution .
maybe he will n't come .
have the lantern ready to uncover , that we may be sure that it is indeed the man .
about six years ago to be exact , upon the th of may , an advertisement appeared in the times asking for the address of miss mary morstan and stating that it would be to her advantage to come forward .
i soon saw that the intruder had left other traces of his presence besides the rumpled papers .
the paper over each window was impenetrable to light , and a blue curtain was drawn across the glass work in front .
on your head be it , alice !
dr mortimer drew a folded newspaper out of his pocket .
their feet and hands , however , are remarkably small .
that is obvious .
water ran out .
it 's a new patient ,
what reparation can i make ?
as we drove up to the porticoed front door , i observed in front of it , beside the tennis lawn , the black tool house and the pedestalled sundial with which we had such strange associations .
exactly one of the richest men in kent lady brackenstall is in the morning room .
there 's a brace of pistols for every mother 's son of us , and if we can n't carry this ship , with the crew at our back , it 's time we were all sent to a young misses ' boarding school .
and he stretched his long white hand up for it .
there was yet another individual whose residence under that roof was , it is true , only an intermittent one , but whose presence at the time of the strange happenings which will now be narrated brought his name prominently before the public .
now , i 'll show you the explanation .
i meant no harm , and yet he would have thought it criminal .
the ' we ' is rather fine , watson , is it not ? i went down to the albert dock yesterday at p .
mr sherlock holmes drove with me to the station and gave me his last parting injunctions and advice .
you are right , councillor ,
hullo !
no trace could be found of the fugitives , and now , on thursday morning , we are as ignorant as we were on tuesday .
seven thousand pounds .
the county constabulary is in a scandalous state , sir , and it has not afforded me the protection to which i am entitled .
and so i will beg leave to resume my walk .
what sort of a game is that eh ?
then , good night , your majesty , and i trust that we shall soon have some good news for you .
and now , lord holdhurst , we have already taken up too much of your valuable time , and we shall wish you good day .
the idea of some ghastly presence constantly haunted him , and on more than one occasion he has asked me whether i had on my medical journeys at night ever seen any strange creature or heard the baying of a hound .
what could he practice on ?
a sound of quick steps broke the silence of the moor .
i say that these monstrous laws of yours will bring a curse upon the land god will not let such wickedness endure .
when new facts come to our knowledge which cannot be covered by it , it will be time enough to reconsider it .
however , they are certainly very indistinct .
in his hand he held a long , legal document which he was reading in an indolent fashion , blowing rings of tobacco smoke from his lips as he did so .
cried the sentinel .
they are endorsed outside , as you see , ' some particulars of the voyage of the bark gloria scott , from her leaving falmouth on the th october , , to her destruction in n .
and now , watson , we shall order breakfast , and afterwards i shall walk down to doctors ' commons , where i hope to get some data which may help us in this matter .
they will be here in a moment .
sherlock holmes rose softly and moved his chair in the direction of the door .
in the meantime you must make yourself contented by the consciousness of success , like the roman miser
sherlock holmes was never at fault , however , and he muttered the names as the cab rattled through squares and in and out by tortuous by streets .
he is unpopular with his colleagues , but a hard worker .
they tell me his name is edwards but he will always be jack douglas of benito canyon to me .
yes , i have thought a good deal of it in the course of the day .
why , then we may find the lady of service .
it was between eleven and twelve when we finished .
we heard her say , ' mother , there are two men in the house waiting to see you , ' and an instant afterwards we heard the patter of feet rushing down the passage .
oh , he went out the first night , did he ?
i confess ,
but in his heart he is not a loyal brother .
i might have rebelled against these exasperating solos had it not been that he usually terminated them by playing in quick succession a whole series of my favourite airs as a slight compensation for the trial upon my patience .
his features were still composed , but his eyes shone with amused exultation .
they stood with their heads close together , talking in low , confidential tones .
speak out , man , and do n't stand staring !
no crime ,
it is not the baronet it is why , it is my neighbour , the convict !
nothing , as things turned out , but everything had they gone another way .
what in the world can he have to do with it ?
it was at such moments that for an instant he ceased to be a reasoning machine , and betrayed his human love for admiration and applause .
what then is left ?
i would offer you a sovereign for the use of a bicycle .
could you give me the date when beppo was arrested ?
there is the hole through which we lowered it .
she watched us with a sardonic eye as we stepped from the brougham .
this reticence upon his part had increased the somewhat inhuman effect which he produced upon me , until sometimes i found myself regarding him as an isolated phenomenon , a brain without a heart , as deficient in human sympathy as he was pre eminent in intelligence .
i think not , holmes .
my friend was an enthusiastic musician , being himself not only a very capable performer but a composer of no ordinary merit .
my word !
i wish you luck with your worm .
you doubt its value ?
i had filled the first two with my linen , and as i had still much to pack away i was naturally annoyed at not having the use of the third drawer .
she had drawn a little gleaming revolver , and emptied barrel after barrel into milverton 's body , the muzzle within two feet of his shirt front .
i 'll answer for that .
indeed , its snow white muzzle proclaimed that it had already exceeded the usual term of canine existence .
colonel lysander stark stopped at last before a low door , which he unlocked .
he had left his own marks all over that small patch of gravel .
someone has loosed the dog .
where did the blood come from ?
patience and prudence .
i do n't think i ever drove faster , but the others were there before us .
partly also from his professional caution , which urged him never to take any chances .
i brought the bust up with me , as you asked me to do .
and if it is still empty ?
yes , sir , he is dead .
you just read it for yourself , sir
apply in person on monday , at eleven o'clock , to duncan ross , at the offices of the league , pope 's court , fleet street .
we both thought the best resource was flight , when pursued by so formidable an antagonist so you will find the nest empty when you call to morrow .
i have , as you discovered last night , a window at the back of my brougham , and if you desire a twenty mile ride which will lead you to the spot from which you started , you have only to follow me .
he and the two mates , are as i learn , the only native born americans in the ship .
and why the missing ring ?
it is fairly complete in essentials .
thank you , maggie , but if it is all the same to you , i d rather have that one i was handling just now .
now , up to last night , we have had no rain for a week , so that those wheels which left such a deep impression must have been there during the night .
i 'm sorry to have called you down over such a petty business , mr holmes , but i thought the point of the second stain not corresponding with the first would interest you .
i was doing no harm , sir i was holding a candle to the window .
do my eyes deceive me , or is there at the present moment something moving upon that hillside ?
i never heard the name ,
look at this stranger hiding out yonder , and watching and waiting !
we were driving to an unknown place , on an unknown errand .
she glanced down in surprise at her own feet , and i observed the slight roughening of the side of the sole caused by the friction of the edge of the pedal .
they were not , so far as i could judge , of any great value , nor did the bank book show that mr oldacre was in such very affluent circumstances .
as the sun rose slowly above the eastern horizon , the caps of the great mountains lit up one after the other , like lamps at a festival , until they were all ruddy and glowing .
and yet i live and keep bees upon the south downs .
he has , however , retained some degree of self respect ,
now we both rushed along the corridor and down the steep steps which led to charles street .
this is clean beyond me , mr holmes .
that did n't escape my notice .
do n't tell me that she is in this ?
where did you get it ?
i 'll do better .
how long have you been here ?
i am really very sorry .
it is quite certain that when mrs barclay left the house at half past seven she was on good terms with her husband .
it was clearly some notable job which needed numbers .
why did you pass these other chairs ?
one glance at the victim was enough to show the healer that his presence could be dispensed with .
but who could that have been , and how could he have got away ?
the temptation to form premature theories upon insufficient data is the bane of our profession .
i am prepared to swear , and so is bannister , that it was smooth and unstained .
i was just too late .
important fresh evidence to hand .
as the daughter could not have been less than twenty , i can quite imagine that her position must have been uncomfortable with her father 's young wife .
if she had , it must be someone from america because she had spent so short a time in this country that she could hardly have allowed anyone to acquire so deep an influence over her that the mere sight of him would induce her to change her plans so completely .
i thought everyone had heard of it .
i hazarded .
you know my methods .
i was a fool not to call you in at the time mr holmes .
it 's the napoleon bust business again ,
your wife has been waiting this two days for you .
it was torn out of the dead man 's hand .
the propriety of my leaving it .
pray tell us what has happened to you .
i am miss morstan , and these two gentlemen are my friends ,
you can be perfectly easy in your mind .
it is perhaps as well that the facts should now come to light , for i have reasons to know that there are widespread rumours as to the death of dr grimesby roylott which tend to make the matter even more terrible than the truth .
how still and peaceful it all seems there may be other lights within the week , and the english coast a less tranquil place !
she will not be up , so that we shall have a clear field .
your net and box would have told me as much ,
once or twice he caught the sound of his own name , and he knew that they were discussing his candidacy .
holmes whistled .
no wonder that men went about in fear and trembling , and that even in the heart of the wilderness they dared not whisper the doubts which oppressed them .
some years ago , however , when she resided at penge , she let apartments in her house to three young medical students , whom she was obliged to get rid of on account of their noisy and irregular habits .
a few words may suffice to tell the little that remains .
that trick of his of breaking in on his friends ' thoughts with an apropos remark after a quarter of an hour 's silence is really very showy and superficial .
there are others .
then he did the same with the wood work with which the chamber was panelled .
in spite of their terror the citizens were taking heart to band themselves together against their oppressors .
you are doing what you can for him and for me .
there is only one punishment in his code .
my friend and i return to town by the night express ,
unfolding it , i found that it consisted of three pages torn from his note book and addressed to me .
are you are you sure of this piece of intelligence ?
on what occasion would it be most probable that such a presentation would be made ?
do n't you dare to meddle with my affairs .
it 's impossible !
is there anything further which i can explain , dr trevelyan ?
to me at least there was a strange contrast between the sweet promise of the spring and this sinister quest upon which we were engaged .
once he looked up at me with a gleam of something like humor in his eyes .
if i remember rightly , you on one occasion , in the early days of our friendship , defined my limits in a very precise fashion .
the idea of using her as a decoy was clearly already in his mind , though he may not have been certain how the details of his plot were to be arranged .
this was overlooked because it was in the darkest corner of the room , and no one thought of looking there .
i did , as you say , after a restless night , set off early from my cottage .
i should be very glad of your immediate assistance in what promises to be a most remarkable case .
danger , ' is n't it ?
our route was certainly a singular one .
well , it is just conceivable that a statesman might find himself in a position where he was not sorry to have such a document accidentally destroyed .
if you will examine the top of the cork , you will observe that the screw was driven in three times before the cork was extracted .
no , nor him either .
you have come to see his grace ?
by the time that i got out into the grounds sherlock holmes was on the roof , and i could see him like an enormous glow worm crawling very slowly along the ridge .
cried the duke , impatiently .
then there is a groom at the hall , if i remember right .
a single cab was splashing its way from the oxford street end .
a depleted bank account had caused me to postpone my holiday , and as to my companion , neither the country nor the sea presented the slightest attraction to him .
for years she has loved me .
i 'll tell you this , that when i was put upon this job i never believed there was such a society as yours .
put yourself in my place .
in return for the news which lestrade would bring , holmes was always ready to listen with attention to the details of any case upon which the detective was engaged , and was able occasionally , without any active interference , to give some hint or suggestion drawn from his own vast knowledge and experience .
i cannot imagine .
who are you , then ?
my directions for mr culverton smith .
if we take you with us ,
on the fly leaf , in very faded ink , is written ' ex libris guliolmi whyte .
he then turned to alice , and before my very face , proposed to her that she should fly with him .
this particular specimen i obtained under very extraordinary circumstances in the ubangi country .
he sprang through a gate into a field , dragging the reluctant pompey after him .
but you must give me time you must give me time !
he whirled round , threw up his arms , and with a kind of choking cough fell sideways into the stream .
but never mind that .
we should certainly make every effort to avoid scandal in so delicate a matter .
on the other hand , his payments were princely .
singular , no doubt and yet he did so .
my father had fallen over one of the deep chalk pits which abound in the neighbourhood , and was lying senseless , with a shattered skull .
beside his right hand a most formidable horn handled , two edged dagger lay upon the floor , and near it a black kid glove .
yellow cap and sleeves .
whatever they do , they will have followers .
surely you have heard of it ?
yes , it was up until i lowered it .
the latter was colonel ross , the well known sportsman the other , inspector gregory , a man who was rapidly making his name in the english detective service .
that really i am almost ashamed to mention them .
his wife tells us that the knife had lain upon the dressing table , and that he had picked it up as he left the room .
and then in an instant the key of the riddle was in my hands , and i saw that every third word , beginning with the first , would give a message which might well drive old trevor to despair .
why , here , near the door .
mcmurdo went to hobson 's patch as agreed .
there could be no question that the most distinctive and suggestive point in the case was the singular disappearance of the door key .
we know there has been a presentation .
the man is rather deaf , and in any case we must take our chance of that .
holmes had remarkable powers , carefully cultivated , of seeing in the dark .
the dull blur in front of us resolved itself now clearly enough into the dainty aurora .
yes , but she is a good sort , or i am mistaken .
very good and i will ask you also to do it blindly , without always asking the reason .
the story was told and retold amid cries of delight and shouts of laughter .
the duke took a pen in his quivering fingers and opened his check book .
we were dashing along the smooth white country road , with the long stretch of the broads in front of us glimmering in the red light of the setting sun .
i am the wife of sir eustace brackenstall .
that is why i have done it ,
attenta three times !
because the candle was not guttered .
i have my revolver ,
he is taller than the indian , not so tall as gilchrist .
it was clear , however , that straker had defended himself vigorously against his assailants , for in his right hand he held a small knife , which was clotted with blood up to the handle , while in his left he clasped a red and black silk cravat , which was recognized by the maid as having been worn on the preceding evening by the stranger who had visited the stables .
he comes in fifty minutes .
i could tell by numerous subtle signs , which might have been lost upon anyone but myself , that holmes was on a hot scent .
you are sure of his guilt , then ?
strong as a lion witness the blow that bent that poker !
cried hopkins .
one of these , concerning which i have said little , is the escaped convict upon the moor .
precisely .
what 's the matter ?
he had not seen this lonely man upon the tor and could not feel the thrill which his strange presence and his commanding attitude had given to me .
its owner is unknown .
what were you doing ?
then , as it would seem , he became as one that hath a devil , for , rushing down the stairs into the dining hall , he sprang upon the great table , flagons and trenchers flying before him , and he cried aloud before all the company that he would that very night render his body and soul to the powers of evil if he might but overtake the wench .
the men came in good time as arranged .
his cry brought back his son but i had gained the cover of the wood , though i was forced to go back to fetch the cloak which i had dropped in my flight .
i will take the next .
mr sherman was a lanky , lean old man , with stooping shoulders , a stringy neck , and blue tinted glasses .
it was during these fruitless quests that he , or rather his ally , was seen by peasants , and that the legend of the demon dog received a new confirmation .
the very next evening had been fixed for the attempt .
i can n't think .
i lit the lamp , put the powder above it , and stood outside the window , ready to carry out my threat to shoot him should he try to leave the room .
the fact is no longer a secret .
blessington , i think , sat upright in the bed , but of that i cannot be absolutely certain .
he cried .
his discipline is tremendous .
trevor senior was a widower , and my friend his only son .
what we did was to organize a central guard house in the middle of the fort , and to leave each gate under the charge of one white man and two or three natives .
i know a good woman in the place i come from , and it 's there i 'd leave you till we can get married .
it is the scientific use of the imagination , but we have always some material basis on which to start our speculation .
also a small packet of technical papers .
cried he with unwonted good humour ,
here , as you perceive , is the inner pocket prolonged into the lining in such fashion as to give ample space for the truncated fowling piece .
mycroft holmes took out a sheet of paper .
why , bless you , mrs warren , if i were your lodger you often would not see me for weeks on end .
how could you call ?
that that fool lestrade , who thinks himself so smart , has gone off upon the wrong track altogether .
it 's more than a precious stone .
it is the only thing that i have ever known him nervous of .
the european secretary bowed .
was the blood stain above or below ?
then i wound it up myself .
i was fortunate enough to discover that there was a deposit of fuller 's earth in one of my fields .
there , sure enough , i perceived a number of flaky ashes , and round the edges a fringe of brownish powder , which had not yet been consumed .
yes , and no later than to day .
i could well remember the scorn which the theories of the reasoner used then to excite in the practical man .
the proportion of blood cannot be more than one in a million .
and has had no letters or callers ?
there is no other possible way of regaining these letters .
then why did you arrest the mulatto ?
it 's all clear ,
i had already made a note of that effect ,
yes , and i cannot be sure when he will be back .
then he laughed in his loud , boisterous , insincere fashion .
no man will take her from me .
never mind ,
holmes was curiously distrait , and we walked up and down the garden path for some time in silence .
that is so !
she stared at us with defiant eyes , and then , suddenly recognizing me , an expression of absolute astonishment came over her face .
noticed anything peculiar about the room ?
i had brought a pack of cards in my pocket , and i thought that , as we were a partie carr e , you might have your rubber after all .
there are several points on which i should like your advice , and especially as to whether we do not owe it to the public to remove our horse 's name from the entries for the cup .
can you remember that ?
creep forward quietly and see what they are doing but for heaven 's sake do n't let them know that they are watched !
this account of you we have from all quarters received .
or could the chief have given west the slip in the fog , and west started at once to london to head him off from his own rooms , presuming that he knew where the rooms were ?
just give us some short sketches of the essentials .
great excitement was caused in esher and the neighbouring district when it was learned late last night that an arrest had been effected in connection with the oxshott murder .
he led us down a passage , opened a barred door , passed down a winding stair , and brought us to a whitewashed corridor with a line of doors on each side .
letter from lord merrow , report from sir charles hardy , memorandum from belgrade , note on the russo german grain taxes , letter from madrid , note from lord flowers good heavens !
have you got his cigar holder ?
i have told you that the corridor is broken by the balcony which runs round the hall , but that it is resumed upon the farther side .
may i ask , in the first place , why you came to me at all ?
it came out in evidence that , in partnership with colonel moran , he had actually won as much as four hundred and twenty pounds in a sitting , some weeks before , from godfrey milner and lord balmoral .
is not all this obvious ?
what is the meaning of it all ?
he ran wildly to the door .
i wanted to ask you , sir , who is the proper person to whom hidden treasure should be handed over .
there is nothing more deceptive than an obvious fact ,
i am going round now to see it .
look at this advertisement ,
every man 's hand is against us , and yet the interests at stake are colossal .
again , would you choose an occasion when you are known to be in the house , when a servant has let you in ?
here 's the one i brought to show you soap .
all around farms were apportioned and allotted in proportion to the standing of each individual .
he is a professional beggar , though in order to avoid the police regulations he pretends to a small trade in wax vestas .
has it never struck you that the way to catch that man was to find out where he got his food and so trace it to him ?
i think we may consider the thing as settled that is , if the rooms are agreeable to you .
at last i can put my cards on the table .
as she did so , the loose gown fell back from her forearms holmes uttered an exclamation .
matter presses .
i should feel so much stronger if i felt that you were at the back of me .
therein lies my m tier , and it is just possible that it may be of some service in the investigation which lies before us .
now for mr breckinridge ,
there was a movement and an exclamation from my right , and peering through the gloom , i saw whitney , pale , haggard , and unkempt , staring out at me .
as her medical adviser , i cannot possibly take the responsibility of allowing anyone to see her .
i wanted to have a word with you , mr mcmurdo ,
high red house with white stone facings .
nothing , mr holmes , save that i was so perplexed that i felt i should not be happy until i had seen you and had your advice .
when we rose again , i observed holmes 's eyes were shining and his cheeks tinged with colour .
really , sir , this is a very extraordinary question .
i thought you 'd be getting into trouble , mr crooked mcmurdo of chicago ,
but it was a hard question , dear ,
dear me !
what do you make of that , mr holmes ?
well , the temptation of sudden wealth so easily acquired was too much for you , as it has been for better men before you but you were not very scrupulous in the means you used .
a volunteer corps of clerks and merchants had been formed , and this i joined , wooden leg and all .
i brought the peasant across , and holmes dispatched the frightened man with a note to dr huxtable .
i have no more notion than you how long it is to last ,
it is a quarter of an hour 's walk from there to appledore towers .
i could read in them a set purpose to devote his life to this quest until the client whom he had failed to save should at last be avenged .
the next morning we heard of mr drebber 's mysterious death .
see the foxhound with hanging ears and drooping tail as it lolls about the kennels , and compare it with the same hound as , with gleaming eyes and straining muscles , it runs upon a breast high scent such was the change in holmes since the morning .
a voice within bade us enter , and we entered a bare , unfurnished room such as hall pycroft had described .
here 's an old acquaintance !
and yet , what could have happened ?
you 'll see prettier things than them soon ,
he shouted , holding his bicycle to block our road .
i will trust you on one condition , and on one condition only ,
there is one other detail ,
i could see at a glance that she was sick with fear , and the sight sent a chill to my own heart .
and he enjoyed the use of the money of the daughter as long as she lived with them .
have just heard that barrymore is at the hall .
what i had to do was to ride over the plantation , to keep an eye on the men as they worked , and to report the idlers .
in the evening i strolled across the park , and found myself about six o clock at the oxford street end of park lane .
appreciation of nature found no place among his many gifts , and his only change was when he turned his mind from the evil doer of the town to track down his brother of the country .
what 's this ?
halloa !
each of these would furnish a narrative , but on the whole i am of opinion that none of them unites so many singular points of interest as the episode of yoxley old place , which includes not only the lamentable death of young willoughby smith , but also those subsequent developments which threw so curious a light upon the causes of the crime .
what 's his game in the matter ?
now would you mind going down and fetching that poor little devil of a terrier which has been bad so long , and which the landlady wanted you to put out of its pain yesterday .
but i take it that it is more likely to be some crony of the landlady 's .
i have seen young mccarthy .
there was just one way of doing it , and i did it .
philosophy .
you can take my word that she is innocent .
ah , well , there is no great mystery in that .
i remember that during the whole of that memorable day he lost himself in a monograph which he had undertaken upon the polyphonic motets of lassus .
he opened the window and made the mark on the sill to give an idea of how the murderer escaped .
the same ,
then he burst into a hearty laugh .
who then is porlock ?
good old watson !
now , i 'll leave it to you , councillor , to judge between us as a bodymaster should .
he is gone .
i slipped in in safety and lay awake half the night in my joy at the thought of seeing you .
but you have retired , holmes .
we were round after her in an instant , but she was already nearly at the bank .
holmes propped it against the cruet stand and read it while he ate .
at last , when he saw five give way to four and that again to three , he lost heart , and abandoned all hope of escape .
i would n't have the scotland yarders know it for the world ,
it was twilight before we reached the tower .
you are miss morstan , of course .
she knocked without receiving any answer , and even turned the handle , but only to find that the door was locked upon the inside .
my friend was in excellent spirits over the success which had attended a succession of difficult and important cases , so that i was able to induce him to discuss the details of the baskerville mystery .
stanley hopkins had laid his hand upon her arm and claimed her as his prisoner , but she waved him aside gently , and yet with an over mastering dignity which compelled obedience .
he would not give any .
my companion lounged in his arm chair with his usual listless expression , while small sat stolidly opposite to him with his wooden leg cocked over his sound one .
and from what ?
i exclaimed .
i have not treated her ungenerously , and she had no just cause of complaint against me , but you know what women are , mr holmes .
a most illuminating remark .
for a moment is seemed to me that there must be some radical mistake in my calculations .
it was this morning , sir mr warren is a timekeeper at morton and waylight 's , in tottenham court road .
she was given to the care of a faithful scotch woman who had once been our servant .
it is , i admit , mere imagination but how often is imagination the mother of truth ?
did lady brackenstall say that screw was used ?
when i saw manager dunn go down at the colliery yonder it was just more than i could stand .
well , when he saw that they were indeed the proofs , it was then that he yielded to temptation .
the only other kinsman whom we have been able to trace was rodger baskerville , the youngest of three brothers of whom poor sir charles was the elder .
as i drove home to my house in kensington i thought over it all , from the extraordinary story of the red headed copier of the encyclopaedia down to the visit to saxe coburg square , and the ominous words with which he had parted from me .
i gasped .
i should be glad to be able to say afterwards that i had solved it without your help .
he has not been hurt at all .
they are actually found upon the person of this junior clerk , cadogan west .
even now i fail to understand what the theory of the police can be .
by the way , these last had been taken out of the chest and were not there when i recovered it .
they may be darned sharp , but they 're not quite sharp enough to catch a washoe hunter .
was it fair , was it honorable , that a half pay surgeon should take such advantage of an intimacy which chance had brought about ?
i mean to teach them in these parts that law is law , and that there is a man here who does not fear to invoke it .
nothing of interest in the paper , watson ?
tut , it is only a scratch through my own clumsiness ,
i had to walk beside him to keep him steady , for he was still a little top heavy .
together they would come at night to the cellar , and their united force would suffice to raise the stone .
he cried .
you surely know my knock by this time .
that 's enough for me and you .
just pull up at a telegraph office as you pass , cabby .
but the inspector was mistaken , for those criminals were not destined to fall into the hands of justice .
you would not think it , to look at them .
well , then ,
the idea of using a form of poison which could not possibly be discovered by any chemical test was just such a one as would occur to a clever and ruthless man who had had an eastern training .
i had already determined in my own mind that the man who had walked into the house with drebber , was none other than the man who had driven the cab .
sherlock holmes pushed him down into the easy chair and , sitting beside him , patted his hand and chatted with him in the easy , soothing tones which he knew so well how to employ .
an acquaintance is n't always a friend ,
you do yourself an injustice .
cried our client .
exactly .
your sister is dead , then ?
that is my own photograph , ' she said .
how did you know that ?
it was not a cheering prospect .
i can n't say that she did not give me every chance of getting out of it if i wished to do so .
others , and among them mcmurdo , broke away into side streets , and so by devious paths to their own homes .
i will tell you about last night .
but you can understand ,
but that 's nothing !
to him it brought murder , to major sholto it brought fear and guilt , to me it has meant slavery for life .
however , i rejoice to say that i have a hated rival , who will certainly cut me out the instant that my back is turned .
you surprise me .
i held the little printed slip to the light .
at agra there were the d bengal fusiliers , some sikhs , two troops of horse , and a battery of artillery .
even the professional detectives , blas as they were in every detail of crime , appeared to be keenly interested in the man 's story .
then comes our expedition of to day .
do not be so suspicious .
but surely the most valuable hunting ground that ever was given to a student of the unusual !
in summer it is a favourite resort of the people , but in winter it is desolate enough .
holmes twisted himself round upon the sofa to get a fairer view of the man 's excited face .
i have some recollection , mr barker , that you associated the coal districts with mr douglas 's first wife , and it would surely not be too far fetched an inference that the v .
annoyed at the churlish rebuff , i turned my back and walked home .
i do not know , ' she answered .
there were seven in the pocket of cadogan west .
strange rumours began to be bandied about rumours of murdered immigrants and rifled camps in regions where indians had never been seen .
they all appear to be adhesive , and there is a distinct odour of lime cream .
i was sure henderson , as he calls himself , felt that he was suspected , and that he would lie low and make no move so long as he thought he was in any danger .
there are limits , you see , to our friend 's intelligence .
the indian treasure , the curious plan found among morstan 's baggage , the strange scene at major sholto 's death , the rediscovery of the treasure immediately followed by the murder of the discoverer , the very singular accompaniments to the crime , the footsteps , the remarkable weapons , the words upon the card , corresponding with those upon captain morstan 's chart , here was indeed a labyrinth in which a man less singularly endowed than my fellow lodger might well despair of ever finding the clue .
what does the mahratta government do ?
about twelve o'clock last night ,
my marriage had drifted us away from each other .
it was a short interview , if there were any interview at all for mrs douglas declares that her husband had not left her more than a few minutes when she heard the shot .
i refused to answer you .
i dare say e .
it is not so far down the corridor , and from it i could vaguely hear a voice when it was very loudly raised .
do n't you think that you have kept up your mystery long enough , mr holmes ?
straker was brought back here , i presume ?
shall i send you home in my trap ?
i wish to heaven that you had been first !
lestrade looked at holmes as if he thought he was going out of his mind .
why , i never remember having done such a thing in my life before .
a name derived from the fanciful resemblance to the sound produced by cocking a rifle .
to burgle his house is no more than to forcibly take his pocketbook an action in which you were prepared to aid me .
you shall have your way , but give me time to get my strength .
there 's the varnish , too , like earth on each side of a furrow .
one of these windows was turned towards the high road , and when the light burned in it at night the folk used to point it out to each other and wonder what black peter was doing in there .
very good , lestrade ,
a skeleton with a tangle of brown hair adhering to it lay among the debris .
yes , he is stopping .
with that man in the field , one 's morning paper presented infinite possibilities .
this it falls away towards mapleton , and you can see from here that there is a long hollow over yonder , which must have been very wet on monday night .
whatever you tell me to do i will do .
something intervened to prevent my going .
besides , it was my life or his when once he was in the fort .
from what i hear , in spite of all his wealth and his title , he very nearly came our way once or twice .
i thought that mrs forrester had come back very early , but i never dreamed that it might be you .
suppose you and your friend , dr watson , come round and lunch with us at two .
it must be a wild place .
pierrot .
the place was empty .
but there was no sign within it of that desperate and defiant villain whom we expected to see .
yet her bright and happy face reconciled him to the arrangement more than any argument could have done .
watson , i mean to burgle milverton 's house to night .
to government , small , ' he stammered , ' to government .
but in addition to this he impressed his comrades with the idea that among them all there was not one whose brain was so ready to devise a bloodthirsty scheme , or whose hand would be more capable of carrying it out .
because i had suggested that he should come over .
a flush sprang to the white cheeks of the stranger .
well , then hop .
yes when i went to see if the door was fastened for the night i met her slipping in .
i think better of the law than that .
there was no sign of him there .
on the one hand , of course , i was glad , for the fee was at least tenfold what i should have asked had i set a price upon my own services , and it was possible that this order might lead to other ones .
there was not a soul there save the two whom i had followed and a surpliced clergyman , who seemed to be expostulating with them .
it was a well used rudge whitworth , splashed as from a considerable journey .
it is evident , therefore , that if both girls had married , this beauty would have had a mere pittance , while even one of them would cripple him to a very serious extent .
the lady gave a violent start and stared in bewilderment at my companion .
and found a cause for the crime .
he stood upon a chair , and , holding up the light in his left hand , he curved his right arm over the broad hat and round the long ringlets .
pile it on , men , pile it on !
they were of a pearly grey colour , small , round , and almost transparent against the light .
no case , however , in which holmes was engaged has ever illustrated the value of his analytical methods so clearly or has impressed those who were associated with him so deeply .
i do n't say now that he is n't a crazy man ,
and this is what we have waited for .
he has been very attentive to us , and hardly a day has passed that he has not called at the hall to see how we were getting on .
we may waste time in following the wrong one , but sooner or later we must come upon the right .
ettie threw her arms round her lover 's neck .
well , well , we will n't argue about that ,
i agree with mr wilder , dr huxtable , that you would have done wisely to consult me .
it is probable .
but really , watson , i am keeping you up , and i might just as well tell you all this on our way to aldershot to morrow .
when we were out in the darkness of the quadrangle , we again looked up at the windows .
i really do n't know what to say .
if ever man had an easy task , this of ours ought to be .
i only kept them here until my friend , mr holmes , should have seen them in your presence .
he has taken to his bed , and dr willows says that he is a wreck and that his nervous system is shattered .
there is no doubt about the stick belonging to our client .
if that is her trap , she must be making for the earlier train .
you then went to the vicarage , waited outside it for some time , and finally returned to your cottage .
he shrugged his shoulders .
and now here is my pocket petrarch , and not another word shall i say of this case until we are on the scene of action .
as you will readily understand , a specialist who aims high is compelled to start in one of a dozen streets in the cavendish square quarter , all of which entail enormous rents and furnishing expenses .
a broad wheal from an old scar ran right across it from eye to chin , and by its contraction had turned up one side of the upper lip , so that three teeth were exposed in a perpetual snarl .
what am i to do ?
my dear fellow , i have given it every consideration .
instead of making friends and exchanging visits with our neighbours , who had at first been overjoyed to see a roylott of stoke moran back in the old family seat , he shut himself up in his house and seldom came out save to indulge in ferocious quarrels with whoever might cross his path .
his death had certainly been instantaneous and painless .
i would hardly go so far as to say that , my dear watson .
by jove !
yes , it was open .
she sent me a letter then , imploring me to go away , and saying that it would break her heart if any scandal should come upon her husband .
i have no objection to telling you ,
they are starving me .
cried the lad .
that would fully explain the facts , would it not ?
there must be no mistake ,
you are holding something back .
i got his leave to come into town this morning , though he little knew for what purpose .
it was only too clear that some sudden and terrible disaster had occurred during his absence a disaster which had embraced them all , and yet had left no traces behind it .
his manner was nervous and shy , like that of a sensitive gentleman , and the thin white hand which he laid on the mantelpiece as he rose was that of an artist rather than of a surgeon .
you spoke to my coachman , then ?
halloa !
a flying column under colonel greathed came round to agra and cleared the pandies away from it .
on the other hand , i would not have given her the name which i have the honour to bear
besides , neither of them could possibly have known that there was anything more valuable than the ordinary departmental papers in my despatch box .
whispered holmes .
and this i swear !
excuse my rudeness .
wait here .
i 've been there ,
he hurried to his chamber and was down again in a few minutes dressed as a common loafer .
a large curved retort was boiling furiously in the bluish flame of a bunsen burner , and the distilled drops were condensing into a two litre measure .
i should be compelled to stop the night .
do you follow all this ?
what will you do , then ?
i thought i had lost it at the hotel .
the lady who has passed here as miss stapleton is in reality his wife .
mcmurdo stared at him in astonishment .
these were hidden fires , indeed !
but there are not many launches to beat us .
but as to your ideas that the man had robbed the house before william tackled him , i think it a most absurd notion .
he stammered .
his coming marriage gives a motive for the crime .
the taper was still on the table , and by its light i glanced to see what the paper was which brunton had taken from the bureau .
inspector martin had the good sense to allow my friend to do things in his own fashion , and contented himself with carefully noting the results .
i have forged and tested every link of my chain , professor coram , and i am sure that it is sound .
but now consider the question of the blood .
the room was as he had left it , save that a sheet had been draped over the central figure .
i do n't attempt to do so .
i was myself consulted upon the case , but i was unable to throw any light upon it .
no , no , lady brackenstall it is no use .
again the agonized cry swept through the silent night , louder and much nearer than ever .
it was a short account of the facts with which he was himself more familiar than the writer could have been .
i know , sir , i know but it shook me , sir , and there 's no use to deny it .
he spoke calmly , but i could see that he was deeply moved .
we are not much better off tonight .
i eliminated everything from it which could be the result of a disguise the whiskers , the glasses , the voice , and i sent it to the firm , with a request that they would inform me whether it answered to the description of any of their travellers .
hopkins pointed to a half opened drawer .
he lay listlessly as i entered the room , but the sight of me brought a gleam of recognition to his eyes .
what did you do next ?
it was at my advice that sir charles was about to go to london .
holmes 's eyes fixed themselves upon one of them , and following his gaze i saw the picture of a regal and stately lady in court dress , with a high diamond tiara upon her noble head .
was it possible that this stolidly respectable person was of the same blood as one of the most notorious criminals in the country ?
he would take so valuable a prize to headquarters with his own hands .
on our knocking , however , the door was instantly thrown open by a hindoo servant clad in a yellow turban , white loose fitting clothes , and a yellow sash .
and now it is high time we were off .
on the whole i incline to the latter view , since the matter was evidently important , and it is unlikely that the composer of such a letter would be careless .
what chance have you against a dozen of them , with boss mcginty and all the power of the lodge behind them ?
my darling made use of the few clear days which our start had given us in arranging for a refuge for me in such a fashion that no possible danger could reach me .
the point is , have you or have you not the bearing and deportment of a lady ?
dark nights are unpleasant ,
this gentleman , mr wilson , has been my partner and helper in many of my most successful cases , and i have no doubt that he will be of the utmost use to me in yours also .
then i started to go round the house to see that all was secure a duty which i usually leave to mary but which i thought it well to perform myself that night .
a clerk ,
i had the good fortune to seize upon that , and everything which has occurred since then has served to confirm my original supposition , and , indeed , was the logical sequence of it .
i get reports almost hourly from the government , and it is certain that nowhere in europe is there any sign of trouble .
queer spot to choose , is it not ?
take your breakfast , watson , and we will go out together and see what we can do .
her haste attracted the attention of the police constable .
lal chowdar shook his head and smiled .
you have not observed .
there was not an officer in the fleet to touch him .
you are endeavouring to trace some geese which were sold by mrs oakshott , of brixton road , to a salesman named breckinridge , by him in turn to mr windigate , of the alpha , and by him to his club , of which mr henry baker is a member .
out of fifteen symbols in the first message , four were the same , so it was reasonable to set this down as e .
we were just as happy as the day was long when we set up house together , and in all liverpool there was no better woman than my mary .
i saw your advertisement , and i thought it might be a plant , or it might be the ring which i wanted .
it may be so ,
what do you make of that , watson ?
he would put it through this ventilator at the hour that he thought best , with the certainty that it would crawl down the rope and land on the bed .
we progress , my dear watson , we progress .
you know where mr beddoes is ?
it seemed to us to be a postscript at the end of the letter and it said : ' please , please , as you are a gentleman , burn this letter , and be at the gate by ten o clock .
his studies are very desultory and eccentric , but he has amassed a lot of out of the way knowledge which would astonish his professors .
that night the night that i read his terror i put my arms round him and i implored him by his love for me and by all that he held dear to hold nothing from me , and to tell me why this huge man overshadowed him so .
gregson and lestrade had watched the manoeuvres of their amateur companion with considerable curiosity and some contempt .
the young man 's fate interests me deeply , since i know him and like him .
then he stood before the fire and looked me over in his singular introspective fashion .
the natural action of a man in pursuing a little boy would be to run after him .
he hardly opened his lips during that weary trudge across the moor , nor would he enter the school when he reached it , but went on to mackleton station , whence he could send some telegrams late at night i heard him consoling dr huxtable , prostrated by the tragedy of his master 's death , and later still he entered my room as alert and vigorous as he had been when he started in the morning .
i have the things themselves in the sitting room , if you would care to see them .
this conversation had occurred while our cab had been threading its way through a long succession of dingy streets and dreary by ways .
it is evidently the theory of some arm chair lounger who evolves all these neat little paradoxes in the seclusion of his own study .
it meant everything to me peace of mind , happiness , self respect everything .
i would not tell them too much ,
matters were in this state , when a new development quite drew our attention away from the original mystery .
if that man is struck down , there will be a stir through this state that will only end with our destruction .
but he must be alive , mr holmes .
i 've had enough of you and your geese ,
halloa !
i shouted , beside myself with rage .
very good , very good ,
i observed .
i should think he may have had some secret trouble .
here is something interesting !
you will be the ruin of us .
what papers ?
i suppose it is impossible to find out how high the elm was ?
the average height is rather below four feet , although many full grown adults may be found who are very much smaller than this .
now , mr holmes , you are in full possession of the facts .
well , of course , if the case were not an odd one we should not have been driven to ask you for an explanation ,
a man always finds it hard to realize that he may have finally lost a woman 's love , however badly he may have treated her .
hurry on !
you have the photograph ?
he had always laughed at what he called my cock and bull story about the colonel , but he looked very scared and puzzled now that the same thing had come upon himself .
it was the fourth of february in the year .
when i paced one corridor and found it six feet shorter than the corresponding one below , it was pretty clear where he was .
it came about in this way .
i determined to wait until i got back to town before telling my story to the police .
pretty things !
a word with you , watson .
it was spoken with fervour and feeling , and yet inspector macdonald could not dismiss the subject .
well , it takes all sorts to make a world , and the professor has n't let it take his appetite away .
three of our boys were killed , however , before we got the swag .
that blocks this end .
it is clear that this unfortunate man was about to return to new york .
there has never been anything like it before , nor will be again .
i 'm not rich , but still i have a hundred a year in my own right , besides the little that i make by the machine , and i would give it all to know what has become of mr hosmer angel .
but her honor ?
great lord of mercy !
mrs straker awoke at seven in the morning , to find that her husband had not yet returned .
his hands and feet were securely strapped together , and he bore over one eye the marks of a violent blow .
in the first place , her sister 's name was sarah , and her address had until recently been the same , so that it was quite obvious how the mistake had occurred and for whom the packet was meant .
and so you will n't cut your hair ?
i would not lose that stick for the world .
as i approached the spot i was aware of voices , some remark in the deep tones of a man , answered by a little ripple of feminine laughter .
we raked all these out of the fire .
there were a few words as of greeting .
in a modest way i have combated evil , but to take on the father of evil himself would , perhaps , be too ambitious a task .
chapter the second , no doubt .
it may give us nothing .
that was my first thought .
i 've been moping in the house all day since watson went off in the morning ,
i really beg your pardon !
it is cocaine ,
were it mixed with any ordinary dish the eater would undoubtedly detect it , and would probably eat no more .
through the front door .
the box was the same which now lies open upon your table .
i laid the two tresses together , and i assure you that they were identical .
look at it in this way , then .
it was n't black , sir , nor was it white , nor any colour that i know but a kind of queer shade like clay with a splash of milk in it .
i wish that you would take them away altogether .
the inspector looked honestly interested .
someone turned the handle and beat upon the outside of the door .
oh , an irish american ?
men at his time of life do not change all their habits and exchange willingly the charming climate of florida for the lonely life of an english provincial town .
this was a visit from a gentleman of the name of blessington , who was a complete stranger to me .
they belong to men who are blood relatives .
forbes flung open the door , and we both ran into the back room or kitchen , but the woman had got there before us .
say , it 's awful dry , ai n't it ?
for his own part , he wished to be free that he might communicate both with the american and with the italian police .
they have to else how can we get him ?
his body was absolutely corpulent , but his face , though massive , had preserved something of the sharpness of expression which was so remarkable in that of his brother .
so it seems to me .
there , fearing that perhaps i had come in the wrong direction after all , i mounted a hill from which i could command a view the same hill which is cut into the dark quarry .
thank you very much .
my god , shall i ever forget their faces when they saw who was in the boat that was closing in upon them ?
his name was familiar to me , for many years ago my parents were acquainted with him , but they drifted apart .
i trust that i am not intruding .
well , i guess you 'll have to fix me up also .
probably he handed it to some sailor customer of his , who forgot all about it for some days .
but love is an emotional thing , and whatever is emotional is opposed to that true cold reason which i place above all things .
i fainted dead away , and i was very sick for months after .
but as a practical man of affairs it is acknowledged that you stand alone .
take that chair and try one of these cigars .
may he share your hopes ?
each of them had a glass in his hand .
on its jagged face was spread eagled some dark , irregular object .
evidently , assuming his narrative to be true , it was immediately after mr mortimer tregennis had left the room .
holmes looked grave .
they might be useful to me as relics of my adventure ,
what more ?
evidently there was a skylight which let in light from above .
the light had suddenly gone out , the glimmering square of window had disappeared , and the third floor formed a dark band round the lofty building , with its tiers of shining casements .
is she your child ?
that 's no business of mine ,
as it proved , however , there was no great safety there , either .
it may have been that barrymore had some private signal which we had neglected to give , or the fellow may have had some other reason for thinking that all was not well , but i could read his fears upon his wicked face .
she was clearly no mere paid dependant , but an honored friend .
what on earth has that to do with it ?
cartwright .
there is but one thing to do .
you will find it here , and may read it for yourself .
it is here .
but i daresay it may have come to your notice that , counterfoil of another man 's message , there may be some disinclination on the part of the officials to oblige you .
day was breaking now , and a line of workmen were slowly making their way , singly and in groups , along the blackened path .
it is settled , then .
oh , i 'm in such trouble !
it was a wild , hoarse scream , so strange and unnatural that it might have come either from a man or a woman .
he laughed until his ears were quite red .
if criminals would always schedule their movements like railway trains , it would certainly be more convenient for all of us .
by the way , sherlock , i expected to see you round last week , to consult me over that manor house case .
turn over those papers and arrange the extracts in their order of time , while i take a glance as to who our client is .
i am much indebted to you for directing my attention to this case , mr soames .
three undetected murders in one year will n't do , lestrade .
we can say no fairer .
we have here the explanation of why john straker wished to take the horse out on to the moor .
well , i have been obliged to reconsider it .
the dumb bell !
i 've had enough of norfolk , said he .
as we dashed up to the door , my friend 's face convulsed with grief , a gentleman in black emerged from it .
surely it is better for you to take the substantial sum which i offer than to ruin this woman 's career , which can profit you in no way ?
we shall look in on our way to the train ,
he was a middle sized , strongly built man square jaw , thick neck , moustache , a mask over his eyes .
do n't look so impatient for i assure you that even so bald an account as this raises some sort of picture of the past in one 's mind .
the alarm of fire was admirably done .
we pulled up at the great peter street post office , and holmes despatched his wire .
he started home again , but the agent went with him .
at least we may accept it as a working hypothesis .
who is the fellow ?
is that all ?
it was a serious thing to be in the power of this spiteful old busybody .
a sudden spirit of girlish mischief came over her she was still only nineteen .
cried the little girl enthusiastically , holding up two glittering fragments of mica .
i was absent rather more than an hour .
this is a trap door which leads out on to the roof .
during all the years that he lived at horsham , i doubt if ever he set foot in the town .
there it is !
then he passed his handkerchief over his brow , set his lips tight , and turned his face towards us .
meanwhile , have you anything more to tell us about the case ?
whence , then , did he come ?
there are half a dozen about here that i have a word to say to ,
roof quite out of reach .
if you could see how things stand with me you could never ask it of me .
it all comes down to this : that there are some men that have good cause to hate me and would give their last dollar to know that they had got me .
the idea of the will , which would give an obvious motive for the crime , the secret visit unknown to his own parents , the retention of the stick , the blood , and the animal remains and buttons in the wood pile , all were admirable .
i could not call you in , mr holmes , without disclosing these facts to the world , and i have already given my reasons for not wishing to do so .
sure , have we not tried it often enough in the lawcourts ?
he kept repeating , in a thin , high voice .
when would his friends unite to give him a pledge of their good will ?
well , indeed then , mac ,
come along , watson .
it may have been yes , by jove , it is a curly haired spaniel .
what is the use of troubling mr holmes with trifles of this kind ?
it was , of course , of the very first importance that they should not be reminded of the existence of this paper , otherwise they would naturally destroy it without delay .
and the rest .
the past and the present are within the field of my inquiry , but what a man may do in the future is a hard question to answer .
one of the footmen declared that he had seen a lady leave the house thus apparelled , but had refused to credit that it was his mistress , believing her to be with the company .
we had got well out on the country road , when a somewhat mortifying incident occurred .
he was the only friend i made during the two years i was at college .
certainly , madam .
then from the pocket of his overcoat he drew a bulky object , and he busied himself in some task which ended with a loud , sharp click , as if a spring or bolt had fallen into its place .
quite so .
i suggest that ' d ' stands for dolores , a common female name in spain .
ask the young lady to step up , mrs hudson .
this , of course , fitted in well enough with the police theory , if the colonel could have seen his wife making a murderous attack upon him .
if i might offer you a word of advice , inspector , it would be to arrest the page , who , as i understand , has only recently come into your service , doctor .
he is a touchy fellow and needs humouring in small things .
when i opened my eyes i found that they had collected the silver from the sideboard , and they had drawn a bottle of wine which stood there .
but when it comes to telling us to abandon the case why in the name of goodness should we abandon the case ?
sherlock holmes seemed delighted at the idea of sharing his rooms with me .
the boots pointed out the door to me , and was about to go downstairs again when i saw something that made me feel sickish , in spite of my twenty years ' experience .
colonel sebastian moran has also been known to warble it .
and help .
but i have heard all that you have heard .
he took the boots from the bag , and compared the impressions of each of them with marks upon the ground .
he stood ,
suddenly he sprang from his chair and glanced at his watch .
i looked over his shoulder at the yellow paper and the faded script .
i have n't had such a day since i had sir john morland for trespass because he shot in his own warren .
i think now ,
but at last there came a terrible blow in the shape of dangerous illness to his wife .
eh , watson ?
there is not an instant to lose .
we have reached the end of our little mystery .
if i can be of any service .
i had not gone more than yards , however , when i heard a hideous outcry behind me , which caused me to run back again .
we had walked several times up and down the lawn , neither miss stoner nor myself liking to break in upon his thoughts before he roused himself from his reverie .
i will do so , mr holmes .
your admiral may find the new guns rather larger than he expects , and the cruisers perhaps a trifle faster .
we were within a boat 's length by this time , and almost within touch of our quarry .
halloa !
it is a provoking check , for every hour is of importance .
standing in the window we saw that his left hand was swathed in a bandage and that his face was very grim and pale .
indeed !
our visitor staggered to his feet and clutched the mantelpiece with his right hand .
i make no complaint of being man handled in this fashion , but i would have you call things by their right names .
it was n't your fault that it is n't a murder charge .
now , watson , the fair sex is your department ,
it is , as he said , beautifully situated , but it is not beautiful in itself , for it is a large square block of a house , whitewashed , but all stained and streaked with damp and bad weather .
a vulgar flaring paper adorned the walls , but it was blotched in places with mildew , and here and there great strips had become detached and hung down , exposing the yellow plaster beneath .
i think that it is quite clear that there must be more than one of them .
they forgot the water and the trees .
well , that is a good sweeping generalization .
the day was just breaking when i woke to find the long , thin form of holmes by my bedside .
therefore the shot must have been fired some time earlier than we are told .
i have only one other incident to record upon this tempestuous and melancholy day .
you did not know where to look , and so you missed all that was important .
would that annoy you ?
and irene adler ?
i see it , i deduce it .
she will have to come with me and see the chief ,
he was indeed a deplorable spectacle .
his characteristic talk , with its keen observance of detail and subtle power of inference held me amused and enthralled .
the box is a yellow , half pound honeydew box , with nothing distinctive save two thumb marks at the left bottom corner .
he continued , fingering the rope ,
yes , sir , and returned very late after we were all in bed .
he is a cripple in the sense that he walks with a limp but in other respects he appears to be a powerful and well nurtured man .
on the contrary , she gave a toss of her proud head , as though the matter were one in which she took small interest .
do you not think that we might drive to him now , sherlock , and learn these particulars ?
it chanced , however , that drebber , looking from his window , had recognized the vagrant in the street , and had read murder in his eyes .
she cried ,
something has been killed and something has been burned .
but , above all , tell me quickly what i am to do , for this misery is more than i can bear .
cried mr acton again .
mcmurdo rose to his feet for an instant .
it was all like some dreadful dream .
in the first place , both my friend and i must spend the night in your room .
a call for help , you thought ?
it was in this way , sir you see me now with my back like a camel and my ribs all awry , but there was a time when corporal henry wood was the smartest man in the th foot .
for god 's sake , ettie , let it stand at that !
as far as the death of bartholomew sholto went , i had heard little good of him , and could feel no intense antipathy to his murderers .
i should like , however , to see the matter through with you , now that i have got so far .
i will not bias your mind by suggesting theories or suspicions , watson ,
he laughed very heartily , with a high , ringing note , leaning back in his chair and shaking his sides .
the beard might well have been the same .
so long as you were here i was easy in my mind .
very good .
he gives me hopes .
this was destroyed by fire in , and some of its smoke blackened corner stones were used when , in jacobean times , a brick country house rose upon the ruins of the feudal castle .
i watched at the gate , same as you advised , mr holmes ,
my dear watson , you would confer a great favor upon me by coming .
a very patient man was that inspector in the cab , for it was a weary time before i rejoined him .
however , your unexpected visit this morning shows me that even in that world of fresh air and fair play , there may be work for me to do .
she was most impressed , however , by the extreme pallor of his face and by the nervousness of his manner .
you hear !
the old sweet song ,
my dear madam ,
i thought no more of the matter until the vicar 's telegram reached me at plymouth .
well , i 'm sure you would never guess in a hundred years what we did find .
five men were in it these four and a fifth called cartwright .
his hands were clenched and his arms thrown abroad , while his lower limbs were interlocked as though his death struggle had been a grievous one .
what 's that you 've got ?
i will tell you how morstan died , ' he continued .
whispered holmes .
why should we give it ?
did the boy deliver it into your own hands ?
how are you getting on ?
at present i am ready to promise that the instant that i can communicate with you without endangering my own combinations , i shall do so .
it was a masterpiece of villainy , and he carried it out like a master .
i shall be very much surprised if it does not fetch our man .
why should anyone desire to steal it or to publish it ?
holmes sat silent and composed , his eyelids half shut , but every sense on the alert .
he did .
what about steiner ?
he opened the door himself , however , and greeted me with a great show of cordiality .
but how come you into this matter , miss burnet ?
for a month he was in and out of my house , and never once did it cross my mind that harm might come of his soft , tricky ways .
i do not know what i have done to be so severely tried ,
yes , have you not heard ?
of course , when i had left the country there was no one to cope with him .
the noise could not have been far away and was certainly in the house .
well , would you please , sir , march upstairs , where we can get a cab to carry your highness to the police station ?
well , that was the situation .
the smarting of it recalled in an instant all the particulars of my night 's adventure , and i sprang to my feet with the feeling that i might hardly yet be safe from my pursuers .
if we could get the rest of that sheet it is obvious that we should have gone a long way towards solving the mystery .
there is that creature !
it was james 's own fault .
yes , she is down in the morning room again , and i have no doubt she will see you , but you must not ask too much of her , for she has gone through all that flesh and blood will stand .
what a chorus of groans , cries , and bleatings !
she began , and then , suddenly losing her self control , she ran forward , threw her arms about my wife 's neck , and sobbed upon her shoulder .
we are investigating the murder of mr john douglas of birlstone manor .
the german master 's room and effects gave no further clue .
it was a most melancholy vigil and ended by each of us falling asleep in our chairs .
what do you make of it ?
we all had good reason to join in the aspiration for our vigil was a long and bitter one .
i confess that i was filled with curiosity , but i was aware that holmes liked to make his disclosures at his own time and in his own way , so i waited until it should suit him to take me into his confidence .
he talked , or rather roared , with such energy that others could but sit and listen , cowed with the mighty stream of words .
surely my whole chain of reasoning cannot have been false .
apply b , baker street .
but you were very young when you last saw baskerville hall , were you not ?
holmes walked over to his desk , took out a little triangular piece of gold with three gems in it , and threw it down upon the table .
i do not encourage visitors .
well , i never !
the fellow left his bicycle behind him .
the puckered eyelids had begun to quiver , and now a pair of vacant gray eyes looked up at us .
his first question was whether holmes had arrived yet .
she departed then and the lights went out , and i was left squatting in the rhododendron bush .
here is a photograph of the couple taken in york four years ago .
stand back yourself !
i shall come to the conclusion soon that they have scuttled the craft .
why should i go back ?
his gray eyes gleamed with sudden and dangerous anger from behind his glasses .
stammered gregson .
when the inspector and a constable entered the house , arthur , who had stood sullenly with his arms folded , asked me whether it was my intention to charge him with theft .
i begin to think that this affair may be very much more important than appeared at first sight .
never certainly have i seen a plainer confession of guilt upon human countenances .
he wanted to know the object of my inquiries , but i managed to satisfy his curiosity without telling him too much , for there is no reason why we should take anyone into our confidence .
it seemed to me that my sudden appearance might shake his nerves and lead him to say something unguarded .
his age may have been about twenty seven , his dress and bearing that of a gentleman .
well , he has rather more viciousness than i gave him credit for , has master joseph .
the time has come .
woodley must be staying in the neighbourhood , for he did not sleep here , and yet i caught a glimpse of him again this morning , slinking about in the shrubbery .
there was a good crowd round the booking office , so i got quite close to them without being seen .
but i filled him up about constitutions and books of rules and forms of membership .
that was what amazed me .
he held the small table sideways to the electric light .
ah , here is my latest from the front !
oh , it drives me half mad to think of it , and i can n't sleep a wink at night .
work is the best antidote to sorrow , my dear watson ,
the matter is so very delicate
i 'm a practical man .
we told him nothing , but we paid him well , and he was to get something handsome if we reached our vessel , the esmeralda , at gravesend , outward bound for the brazils .
damp would of course have removed this .
well , it certainly was not mr james wilder , for there he is at the door .
i should not be very much surprised if this were he .
and why is he here ?
the lascar was known to be a man of the vilest antecedents , but as , by mrs st .
it 's soon told , and , by the lord , every word of it is truth .
the three of them removed his coat , turned up the sleeve of his right arm , and finally passed a rope round above the elbows and made it fast .
i 'll see reilly the lawyer and take the defense upon myself .
his chin was cocked upward and his eyes were fixed in a dreadful , rigid stare at the corner of the ceiling .
the premier 's thin , blue veined hands were clasped tightly over the ivory head of his umbrella , and his gaunt , ascetic face looked gloomily from holmes to me .
they are waiting for me at the ca on .
mr wilson 's assistant counts for a good deal in this mystery of the red headed league .
surely it was the place of a loyal friend to rejoice at such news yet i am ashamed to say that selfishness took me by the soul , and that my heart turned as heavy as lead within me .
might i beg you , as time may prove to be of importance , to furnish me with the facts of your case without further delay ?
gone was the coarse brown tint !
we have now only to wait for my brother and the merchant .
no doubt he will return .
you saw her return by the kitchen door , i presume ?
then pray send him home in it .
i can see no difference .
i noticed it , mr holmes , but you 'll always find scratches round a keyhole .
remarkable !
holmes twitched my sleeve , and together we stole down the stair .
not yet .
at last he started in his chair , and his eyes brightened .
i have been very obtuse , watson ,
there was a broad , irregular smudge covering some yards of the track .
as i have said , i am the skipper of the rugger team of cambridge ' varsity , and godfrey staunton is my best man .
oh , you can trust me , you can trust me !
i exclaimed .
the old man sank his face in his hands .
it was found in the banks of the amoy river in southern china and is remarkable in having every characteristic of the carbuncle , save that it is blue in shade instead of ruby red .
now , what in the world is mr james wilder doing in that den at this hour of night , and who is the companion who comes to meet him there ?
take this note as hard as you can ride to farnham .
now , watson , i will n't detain you from your legitimate work any longer .
a nobler man never lived upon earth .
the first case reported was four days ago ,
and yet the next day brought us no nearer to the solution of the mystery .
he got home upon me very prettily that time .
his face flushed and darkened .
if it had been written straight off , and then blotted , none would be of a deep black shade .
there 's no room for scabby sheep in our pen .
he wants to be sure that she is on the lookout .
he 's a token of evil .
it was the scene of the murder .
never have i seen a man run as holmes ran that night .
i will ask you to carry in two bundles of it .
one to mr harker you see , and one to mr josiah brown , of laburnum lodge , laburnum vale , chiswick , and one to mr sandeford , of lower grove road , reading .
the last glass filled would be most likely to contain beeswing .
i have money enough and to spare .
you spoke with her .
winwood reade is good upon the subject ,
let the whole incident be a sealed book , and do not allow it to affect your life .
that is your end of the story .
and so could i from which i gather that in all probability it was a false one .
it is a bust in wax .
i looked at that delicately curved nose , at the marked eyebrows , at the straight mouth , and the strong little chin beneath it .
cried the diplomatist .
i have a pistol ,
tell me , watson .
here , in a broad thoroughfare , once the abode of wealthy city merchants , we found the sculpture works for which we searched .
surely my deductions are simplicity itself ,
lord robert walsingham de vere st .
why did you come away to consult me in such a hurry ?
on leading toby to the place where he had committed his fault , he cast about in a wide circle and finally dashed off in a fresh direction .
there were , as he had said , marks upon the bed , but they were hopelessly blurred and vague .
take it back you !
the result seems to indicate that it was so , since in the first case only the woman , who had presumably the more sensitive organism , was killed , the others exhibiting that temporary or permanent lunacy which is evidently the first effect of the drug .
you have omitted the and under . '
through a cousin who works with gelder , he found out the retail firms who had bought the busts .
he never did wish us to go anywhere .
gennaro was able to do a service to an italian gentleman he saved him from some ruffians in the place called the bowery , and so made a powerful friend .
not a sound , for your lives !
i arrest you in the queen 's name as being concerned in the death of your brother .
the count shrugged his broad shoulders .
mother 's gone .
he would say in answer to my medical remonstrances .
then i tried alternate words , but neither ' the of for ' nor ' supply game london ' promised to throw any light upon it .
he snatched one of them up , opened it , and burst out into a triumphant chuckle of laughter .
he handed each of them a shilling .
holmes smiled .
there were a couple of brace of cold woodcock , a pheasant , a p t de foie gras pie with a group of ancient and cobwebby bottles .
brother ferrier ,
what can i do ?
however , we were really independent of her help .
holmes 's face was very white and grave .
there was silence for a moment , and then the daughter spoke in a calm clear voice .
oh , in the globe , star , pall mall , st .
i suppose he wants to find out some clue as to the burglary last night , if a burglar it was .
i 'll dictate it , if you like .
the object which had caught his eye was a small dog lash hung on one corner of the bed .
the servant deposed that she heard him enter the front room on the second floor , generally used as his sitting room .
are placed before that hospital the words ' charing cross ' very naturally suggest themselves .
but it is for you that i am frightened , dear .
but i need your company and assistance .
i hurried along the road at the top of my speed without seeing anything of sir henry , until i came to the point where the moor path branches off .
when i at last drew him down on to the sofa , his mouth and eyelids were all puckered on one side , and i saw that he had a stroke .
looking over , i saw the naturalist pause at the door of an out house in the corner of the orchard .
however , you have now seen the point of the picture .
by the way , is there any news of the match ?
the statesman smiled .
my dear watson ,
because it is a clumsy fabrication which simply could not be true .
i saw a dark , creeping figure which crawled round the corner and squatted in front of the door .
i never knew it until i was at the very door .
the flavor is not disagreeable , but it is perceptible .
that is very interesting .
it was a summer evening when he came galloping down the road and pulled up at the gate .
almost at once i came upon what i expected .
and that is
but his description what of that ?
many people are improved by wearing it short and perhaps i should be among the number .
i want you just to let captain morstan hear that story from your own lips , small ,
his first action was to send mortimer , the gardener , for the local police .
every minute that white woolly plain which covered one half of the moor was drifting closer and closer to the house .
no , i have not .
he was introduced to us as the owner of the house mr horace harker , of the central press syndicate .
come , miss westbury , be absolutely frank with us .
from that day to this it has been handed down from father to son , until at last it came within reach of a man who tore its secret out of it and lost his life in the venture .
it was a long chamber with a step separating the dais where the family sat from the lower portion reserved for their dependents .
while sherlock holmes had been detailing this singular series of events , we had been whirling through the outskirts of the great town until the last straggling houses had been left behind , and we rattled along with a country hedge upon either side of us .
down , this instant , watson this instant , i say !
john ferrier 's heart was sore within him when he thought of the young man 's return , and of the impending loss of his adopted child .
you suspect some one ?
i am convinced that in the case of a secret of this importance it would rise superior to the most intimate domestic ties .
that is shown by the increased length of his strides .
it was all we could do to overhaul her .
a confederate and even that one glance had told me how dangerous a man that confederate was had kept guard while the professor had attacked me .
precisely .
last monday i had finished for the day and was dressing in my room above the opium den when i looked out of my window and saw , to my horror and astonishment , that my wife was standing in the street , with her eyes fixed full upon me .
all my medical instincts rose up against that laugh .
sweating rank sweating !
god bless you , anna !
is that the treasure , then ?
because it incriminated him .
you find it so ?
from what i have heard from him this morning , i gather that he has lost heavily in dabbling with stocks , and that he is ready to do anything on earth to better his fortunes .
having left the house , i proceeded to do what gregson had neglected .
i seem to have heard some queer stories about him .
here is the slip and here are four letters from him .
is she ?
near lee , in kent .
through this his identity was established .
how was it done ?
well , it is quite evident that there are two men more , perhaps , but at least two who are determined for some reason to get at this fellow blessington .
but when i gave him every particular that had occurred , he tried to bluster and took down a life preserver from the wall .
do you think it points to suicide ?
i questioned mrs straker as to the dress without her knowing it , and having satisfied myself that it had never reached her , i made a note of the milliner 's address , and felt that by calling there with straker 's photograph i could easily dispose of the mythical derbyshire .
i did not know .
i guess it will haunt me forever .
this is particularly so in the region between holdernesse hall and the school .
yes , yes , it must be so .
we live very quietly , sir , the three of us and we keep a roof over our heads and pay our debts , if we do nothing more .
when i approached your room , i examined the window .
i put the case before you as it has reached me .
that is the question which faces us , and when it has been answered we shall surely have gone some way to solve our problem .
he snatched it from her in his eagerness , and smoothing it out upon the table he drew over the lamp and examined it intently .
but it has the hotel mark upon it !
have i told the truth , mr gilchrist ?
then he staggered away but another of the assassins fired , and he went down sidewise , kicking and clawing among a heap of clinkers .
you call that love , mr carruthers , but i should call it selfishness .
on the very evening upon which i had his answer , hilton cubitt sent me the last message from slaney .
it is out of the question .
i reported to that effect to the admiralty .
i have not lived for years with sherlock holmes for nothing .
the most practical way of getting at it , in my opinion , is to identify the dead man .
to entice a man in cold blood with the object of murdering him is another , whatever danger you may fear from him .
my good sir ,
it is the valley of fear , the valley of death .
it is true .
his bed had not been slept in .
you fail , however , to reason from what you see .
to morrow , i trust that we shall hear the last of it forever .
the instant that their footsteps had died away in the distance , jefferson hope sprang to his feet , and helping his companions through the gap , led the way across the fields at the top of his speed , supporting and half carrying the girl when her strength appeared to fail her .
when he put his hand on my shoulder as we were parting , it was like a father 's blessing before you go out into the cold , cruel world .
i used him and he is gone .
but i have named that price , so i intend to stick to it .
it was indeed the same face which had glared upon me in the light of the candle from over the rock the face of selden , the criminal .
i perceive that all is as it should be .
continued our strange visitor .
to tell the truth , lucy , it is n't the first time i have thought of doing it .
it was holmes 's turn to look astonished .
leaning back in his arm chair of an evening , he would close his eyes and scrape carelessly at the fiddle which was thrown across his knee .
he sank his face in his hands , and trembled all over .
the launch with a dull thud ran up upon the mud bank , with her bow in the air and her stern flush with the water .
you will challenge him , sahib , as usual , ' whispered abdullah .
you are certainly a model client .
it 's horrible to have to do it .
if he is violent , we shall take you away to your aunt 's at harrow .
how did you know it ?
mr fowler was a very kind spoken , free handed gentleman ,
i know why he was at the gate at that hour .
what 's this ?
but i was not satisfied , and the attempts which he made to draw me away increased my suspicions .
tell me ,
let us walk in these beautiful woods , watson , and give a few hours to the birds and the flowers .
you 'll have it , sir ,
however , i was in time for the last train to eyford , and i reached the little dim lit station after eleven o'clock .
at least , we may take counsel how far we can minimize this hideous scandal .
there was nothing of the sort .
no doubt you are right .
with these in front of him , he worked for some time at the study table .
anyhow , he never got tallow stains from a gas jet .
then he became a little more reasonable .
mr latimer seated himself opposite to me and we started off through charing cross and up the shaftesbury avenue .
i think , watson , that it would be as well for you to have your pistol ready .
mcginty added that it was impossible for anyone to remain secret at the union house , and that , therefore , he would be obliged if mcmurdo and scanlan would put the strangers up for a few days in their boarding house .
one would imagine that such a match would be very welcome to stapleton , and yet i have more than once caught a look of the strongest disapprobation in his face when sir henry has been paying some attention to his sister .
i love him so !
why , what is that ?
the blood stains were very slight , mere smears and discolourations , but undoubtedly fresh .
a small place , miss , but furnished to my own liking .
no doubt it must have struck him that the apartment was very exposed for so secret a meeting .
there you make a mistake , mr holmes .
there has been some new development ?
he had been a kind and considerate employer not quite what ames was used to , perhaps but one can n't have everything .
was it crime last night when a man old enough to be your father was beaten till the blood dripped from his white hairs ?
i have seen those symptoms before ,
to make it the more extraordinary , there was no side road at this point down which he could have gone .
it was a letter of mine , mr holmes , an indiscreet letter written before my marriage a foolish letter , a letter of an impulsive , loving girl .
now it must be evident to you , watson , that this young man 's body was placed on the roof of the train .
a little investigation showed me that a school had come to grief under atrocious circumstances , and that the man who had owned it the name was different had disappeared with his wife .
voices hailed us out of the darkness , but still the aurora thundered on , and still we followed close upon her track .
i knew you would not shrink at the last ,
he might avert it all if he would but tell me what he had done with the three missing stones .
they are a fierce , morose , and intractable people , though capable of forming most devoted friendships when their confidence has once been gained .
she was ready to warn sir henry so far as she could without implicating her husband , and again and again she tried to do so .
why do you say ' in this instance ' ?
i sent a telegram home , therefore , to say that i had important business on hand , and that it was impossible for me to say how late i might be .
anyhow , we have no time to lose .
house is full of indian curiosities .
at last she continued :
did you dust this bureau yesterday morning ?
very good .
that all hangs together .
yes , it was waiting .
and so it happened that an hour or so later i found myself in the corner of a first class carriage flying along en route for exeter , while sherlock holmes , with his sharp , eager face framed in his ear flapped travelling cap , dipped rapidly into the bundle of fresh papers which he had procured at paddington .
the telegram which we eventually received came late one night just as i was thinking of turning in and holmes was settling down to one of those all night chemical researches which he frequently indulged in , when i would leave him stooping over a retort and a test tube at night and find him in the same position when i came down to breakfast in the morning .
the duke stood in thought for a moment , with a look of intense surprise on his face .
with a boy 's curiosity i have peeped through the keyhole , but i was never able to see more than such a collection of old trunks and bundles as would be expected in such a room .
one evening , about the third week after our start , the doctor had come down to see one of the prisoners who was ill , and putting his hand down on the bottom of his bunk he felt the outline of the pistols .
as i did so i happened to glance out of one of the upper windows , and saw the maid with whom i had just been speaking running across the field in the direction of the cottage .
you are an impudent fellow !
well , well ,
i have a kind of intuition that way .
i went in the shape of a loafer to sir george 's house , managed to pick up an acquaintance with his valet , learned that his master had cut his head the night before , and , finally , at the expense of six shillings , made all sure by buying a pair of his cast off shoes .
the gloria scott
he cried , grasping sherlock holmes by either shoulder and looking eagerly into his face .
then the clothes have been the poor devil 's death ,
once in their power , they would find a way to make him speak .
yes but the next step wants considering .
my companion smiled approvingly .
in the midst of these was a small black and white ivory box with a sliding lid .
but what is the danger ?
she had seen the buttons , and was sure that they belonged to the clothes which he had worn last night .
then suddenly realising the exposure , he broke into a scream and threw himself down with his face to the pillow .
it 's a capitalist outrage , and you 'll hear more of it , i reckon .
inference , that your brother was often at low water .
the turmoil within my brain was such that something must surely snap .
he was no backward suitor .
as well as another ,
a gentleman had just called for him , and he was gone .
we will drive in to coombe tracey , but watson will leave his things as a pledge that he will come back to you .
observed holmes .
and now , your grace , i 'll trouble you for that check .
was one of a row , all flat chested , respectable , and most unromantic dwellings .
has the outer door a spring lock ?
no but one of them was mine all the same ,
and then i gave a cry of exultation , for a tiny pinpoint of yellow light had suddenly transfixed the dark veil , and glowed steadily in the centre of the black square framed by the window .
i am all right , but indeed , holmes , i can hardly believe my eyes .
that is the reward , and i have reason to know that there are sentimental considerations in the background which would induce the countess to part with half her fortune if she could but recover the gem .
holmes chuckled and wriggled in his chair , as was his habit when in high spirits .
he placed his finger in the centre of the circle .
on these his eager , questioning eyes were fixed , and i saw on his keen , alert face that tightening of the lips , that quiver of the nostrils , and concentration of the heavy , tufted brows which i knew so well .
mr roundhay , we are entirely at your disposal .
you would do me a greater still if you could lay your hands on the murderer of john straker .
the study door was shut and she opened it .
but he is the only person in this world who can tell us exactly what happened in that room .
i 've got a good deal to say ,
there was something sinister in his eyes .
he did tell me the address .
come , come , we are not so far wrong , after all ,
a minute later we were in the street and walking for home .
mr windibank gave a violent start and dropped his gloves .
at three in the morning the chief sussex detective , obeying the urgent call from sergeant wilson of birlstone , arrived from headquarters in a light dog cart behind a breathless trotter .
it is already ten o clock .
the key !
i do n't know how it is ,
there was a long pause , and i felt that culverton smith was standing in silent amazement looking down at his companion .
is this a joke , mr holmes ?
it was he who had been the first to discover the body of sir charles , and we had only his word for all the circumstances which led up to the old man 's death .
he would tell you that she was an angel upon earth .
we had reached the shrubbery which surrounded the house when holmes pulled up .
do you know anything of this beddoes ?
there lies our problem .
this is not the place to commemorate the trials and privations endured by the immigrant mormons before they came to their final haven .
and now , doctor , we can do nothing until the answers to those letters come , so we may put our little problem upon the shelf for the interim .
what indications have we as to this book ?
lady brackenstall actually saw the three men drinking , did she not ?
yes , the wine cellar .
i will just go after him and see what he does with himself .
as i approached the house i saw a tall man in a scotch bonnet with a coat which was buttoned up to his chin waiting outside in the bright semicircle which was thrown from the fanlight .
the fact is that i felt as though i were choking , and had a perfect longing for a breath of fresh air .
oh , yes , no doubt that is what i must have meant ,
when do you go to mawson 's ?
there 's not a doubt of it !
this is all an insoluble mystery to me ,
i had also every cause to think that there was some criminal secret in the matter .
it is a privilege to be associated with you in the handling of a case ,
he may have been a common burglar , or he may have had some private grudge against mr douglas .
i rapidly threw on my clothes and was ready in a few minutes to accompany my friend down to the sitting room .
these flat brims curled at the edge came in then .
my dear watson , you were born to be a man of action .
the injury from which the unfortunate veteran was suffering was found to be a jagged cut some two inches long at the back part of his head , which had evidently been caused by a violent blow from a blunt weapon .
oh , come !
in that case , of course , i 'd come forward .
you are a man to be humored , and we all know that you are a connoisseur of crime , but duty is duty , and i have gone rather far in doing what you and your friend asked me .
then they will not lose a minute , for the sooner they do their work the longer time they will have for their escape .
you will excuse my beginning without you , watson ,
here it is .
when i turned again , sherlock holmes was standing smiling at me across my study table .
i am afraid that you will not be able to wire to me , for i can hardly tell yet where i may find myself .
then you must have important evidence , of which we are ignorant , for they were said to be a most united couple .
post office , charing cross .
surely you do n't think that it was i ?
to this day , in the lonely ranches of the west , the name of the danite band , or the avenging angels , is a sinister and an ill omened one .
i am sure that i do not know .
at last , when you had all formed your inevitable and totally erroneous conclusions , you departed for the hotel , and i was left alone .
they raided his store last night , and he and his papers are all in portsmouth jail .
holmes smiled at the astonishment of hopkins , which must have been reflected upon my features .
i know you , you scoundrel !
as i passed the well remembered door , which must always be associated in my mind with my wooing , and with the dark incidents of the study in scarlet , i was seized with a keen desire to see holmes again , and to know how he was employing his extraordinary powers .
from the years to inclusive , mr sherlock holmes was a very busy man .
it took me some little time , for the bell rings in the kitchen and the servants all sleep upstairs .
we had during this time been following the guidance of toby down the half rural villa lined roads which lead to the metropolis .
then i understand that on your arrival in london yesterday you went out at once and bought a pair of boots ?
but it was the associate , and not jonathan , who committed the crime .
mcginty sat at the head with a flat black velvet cap upon his shock of tangled black hair , and a coloured purple stole round his neck , so that he seemed to be a priest presiding over some diabolical ritual .
i seem to have lost the faculty of thought .
we are in camden house , which stands opposite to our own old quarters .
reginald musgrave had been in the same college as myself , and i had some slight acquaintance with him .
here are your wages .
oh , this is an havana , and these others are cigars of the peculiar sort which are imported by the dutch from their east indian colonies .
but what you are really looking for is the centre page of the times with some holes cut in it with scissors .
without aid it is so .
the little man obeyed in a half stupefied fashion , and we heard him stumbling down the stairs in the dark .
to the red headed league : on account of the bequest of the late ezekiah hopkins , of lebanon , pennsylvania , u .
nous verrons ,
well , then , will you please compare that print with this wax impression of young mcfarlane 's right thumb , taken by my orders this morning ?
i followed the footsteps down the yew alley , i saw the spot at the moor gate where he seemed to have waited , i remarked the change in the shape of the prints after that point , i noted that there were no other footsteps save those of barrymore on the soft gravel , and finally i carefully examined the body , which had not been touched until my arrival .
horrified by what she had done , she rushed wildly away from the scene of the tragedy .
i stared hard myself at her flat , grizzled hair , her trim cap , her little gilt earrings , her placid features but i could see nothing which could account for my companion 's evident excitement .
how dared he pull at a bell rope in that reckless fashion ?
cried mcginty , rubbing his hands .
his heart was , i knew , affected , and the constant anxiety in which he lived , however chimerical the cause of it might be , was evidently having a serious effect upon his health .
he had evidently been carried down by two persons , one of whom had remarkably small feet and the other unusually large ones .
and yet here we find them in the pocket of a dead junior clerk in the heart of london .
and so am i .
one of these lads sat up each night in the stable , while the others slept in the loft .
i will sit here while you do so .
that is your man , i fancy .
i 've my own good reasons for leaving chicago , and let that be enough for you .
well , i got the two dozen from a salesman in covent garden .
and the murderer ?
again i had an opportunity of asking him a point blank question , and again my delicacy prevented me from forcing another man to confide in me .
i had a night light burning , however .
you may rely upon my doing all that i can .
let me carry your grip and show you the road .
before evening , we had a visit from inspector stanley hopkins .
it could only come from the lonely abode of the stapletons .
the man burst into a hearty laugh .
i left him then , still puffing at his black clay pipe , with the conviction that when i came again on the next evening i would find that he held in his hands all the clues which would lead up to the identity of the disappearing bridegroom of miss mary sutherland .
you have slept soundly ,
i have been turning it over in my mind , and i can see only one way out of it .
no one else in your room ?
i was a boy in my teens at the time of my father 's death and had never seen the hall , for he lived in a little cottage on the south coast .
the man who had the guilt upon his soul of having brought such a fate upon his own family might well be driven by remorse to inflict it upon himself .
no , for it was followed by a protestation of innocence .
this girl had been devoted to him .
i shook my head .
he was to catch the first .
what we desire now is to hear your story of the present .
by it he laid the box of matches and the stump of a candle .
he was at the gate when i came out , a leanin ' up agin the railings , and a singin ' at the pitch o his lungs about columbine 's new fangled banner , or some such stuff .
you must either be with us now or you must be silenced forever .
dear me , how very stupid of me , to be sure !
is it not the very picture of an old family home ?
i can see no other way out of it .
on the third night after brunton 's disappearance , the nurse , finding her patient sleeping nicely , had dropped into a nap in the arm chair , when she woke in the early morning to find the bed empty , the window open , and no signs of the invalid .
then i must go to his room .
of course , i could not listen to the details without feeling assured that my poison had been used .
i have but to raise my finger ,
really , gregson , you are getting along .
he had not heard her when she pushed open the door .
ask mr sholto to step this way .
she appeared to be dazzled by the sudden blaze of light , and after dropping a curtsey , she stood blinking at us with her bleared eyes and fumbling in her pocket with nervous , shaky fingers .
i am the king .
after the lapse of time that has passed since their crime , it was impossible for me to secure a conviction against them in any court .
hopkins was for leaving the door of the hut open , but holmes was of the opinion that this would rouse the suspicions of the stranger .
the colonel was very angry .
you are right , mr holmes .
did it do you any good ?
he then very methodically examined it all over with his double lens .
now , mr holmes , what have you to say ?
i cried .
two of his constables came at the call .
i waited in an agony of suspense until she came back with her report .
then i thought there was some chance of water in this direction , so i heaved you over my shoulder and we tramped it together .
our acquaintance looked surprised , and then , glancing down , he began to laugh .
yes , it was by their light and that of the lady 's bedroom candle , that the burglars saw their way about .
who are you , and how do you get my name so pat ?
otherwise your energy and attention must be dissipated instead of being concentrated .
a clever counsel would tear it all to rags ,
the boy ' s , then ?
good night !
pray make no apology to me ,
the crown !
i feel sure that if sir charles could have spoken with me before his death he would have warned me against bringing this , the last of the old race , and the heir to great wealth , to that deadly place .
the candle was not lit at that time but the lamp was burning .
think yourself smart , do n't you ?
there seemed to be no necessity why any soul ever should know .
i wish you to understand , in the first place , that i am not employed by lord mount james , and that my sympathies in this matter are entirely against that nobleman .
it was a good fire , and the room was illuminated by it .
there 's the village ,
a small timber yard still exists , however , at the back of the house , and last night , about twelve o clock , an alarm was given that one of the stacks was on fire .
how many will you take ?
breckinridge , of covent garden .
she clasped her hands and waited for an answer .
the figure broke into fragments , and holmes bent eagerly over the shattered remains .
all the indications seem to me to point in that direction .
why do you sit moping there , annie ?
half an hour , sir he was a very restless gentleman , sir , a walkin ' and a stampin ' all the time he was here .
if you love me , and i you , who will dare to come between ?
that even now i cannot see how it helps us .
something had evidently aroused his suspicions .
it is very well to cringe and crawl now , but you thought little enough of this poor horner in the dock for a crime of which he knew nothing .
her violet eyes shining , her lips parted , a pink flush upon her cheeks , all thought of her natural reserve lost in her overpowering excitement and concern .
different threads , but leading up to the same tangle .
within the last few months it became increasingly plain to me that sir charles 's nervous system was strained to the breaking point .
you could hardly conceive a less emotional subject .
he turned into one of the district messenger offices , where he was warmly greeted by the manager .
for an instant he was rigid and motionless .
we crossed the marshy bottom and passed over a quarter of a mile of dry , hard turf .
nearly a hundred souls were in her , all told , when we set sail from falmouth .
where is bannister now ?
then a key clicked in a lock , and i heard the rustle of papers .
which of them , then , had access to that dish without the maid seeing them ?
holmes had been examining the cover of the notebook with his magnifying lens .
now , if i could have done this without the knowledge of professor moriarty , all would have been well .
it was not yet dawn , and by the light of the lamps they could see the two men some distance down the street .
he shall not compete .
by the way , in view of recent occurrences , perhaps i ought to ask mrs hudson to examine its crop .
they had called upon us that very afternoon , so that it was natural that the subject should come up for discussion .
what had she done with that ?
you just do it for the honour of the thing .
remarkable !
the torn bird , the pail of blood , the charred bones , all the mystery of that weird kitchen ?
he was on the south american line when that was taken , but he was so fond of her that he could n't abide to leave her for so long , and he got into the liverpool and london boats .
i have lost my thumb and i have lost a fifty guinea fee , and what have i gained ?
this is insanity , holmes .
no doubt there are natural enemies which limit the increase of the creatures .
got whom , mr holmes ?
but , after all , if he is satisfied , why should i put ideas in his head ?
i am glad to hear your majesty say so .
the shout must have rung over norwood .
but his narrative was nipped in the bud .
i assured him that i was not offended .
yes they were on the edge of the path on the same side as the moor gate .
we simply detailed the circumstances , and said that we should be glad of any information which could help us .
i do n't mind how i get on .
certainly ,
one night , when gennaro returned from his work , he brought a fellow countryman back with him .
dr mortimer , i think you could not do better than to tell your story as you told it to us .
there was a chorus of friendly good nights from the other miners as they passed from the platform .
he saw the agent .
we have been having a look at your horses , but i think i 'll walk , after all .
you look the same blithe boy as ever .
this is mr frankland , of lafter hall , who lives some four miles to the south of us .
he spoke in little , sharp , jerky outbursts , and it seemed to me that to speak at all was very painful to him , and that his will all through was overriding his inclinations .
i can hear a movement .
and she will do it .
i picked it out from among the papers upon his desk .
i shall go down to hampshire quite easy in my mind now .
they say that away down in the village , and even in the distant parsonage , that cry raised the sleepers from their beds .
in the central portion of the great north american continent there lies an arid and repulsive desert , which for many a long year served as a barrier against the advance of civilisation .
wherever he was the folk around soon knew it .
the last red streaks had faded away in the west and night had settled upon the moor .
he made no remark , however , save that , unless we hurried , we should be late for our appointment with lestrade .
have you observed in the paper a short paragraph referring to the remarkable contents of a packet sent through the post to miss cushing , of cross street , croydon ?
the result was that he came straight away in a state bordering on frenzy , and has remained in the same state , kneeling at the end of her bed , until this morning death put an end to her sufferings .
it is a wild night indoors , and what must it be in a stone hut upon the moor .
easier for me to throw , and easier for you to recover ,
do you find the prisoner guilty or not guilty ?
poor lady , she has had a most dreadful experience .
if there is danger
no , no , it was a hound .
mrs lyons knew neither of these things , but had been impressed by the death occurring at the time of an uncancelled appointment which was only known to him .
do you not see some loophole , some flaw ?
the sun was shining very brightly , and yet there was an exhilarating nip in the air , which set an edge to a man 's energy .
it was certainly rather eccentric behaviour .
i showed it to elsie , and down she dropped in a dead faint .
it was to set her up in a typewriting business .
there was an american young lady there patrick was the name elsie patrick .
i thought as much and knowing your admirable tenacity i was convinced that you were sitting in ambush , a weapon within reach , waiting for the tenant to return .
we shall have to catch the aurora , and she has a name for being a clipper .
there is a second stain , but it does not correspond with the other .
surely , having traced this lady so far , you can also say what has become of her .
very well .
if there are any pressing fresh developments , i shall be always ready to run down and see you in your norfolk home .
so far i have been able to quote from the reports which i have forwarded during these early days to sherlock holmes .
you have it !
i perceive also that whoever addressed the envelope had to go and inquire as to the address .
his eyes blazed at you and held you at his mercy .
i have come for advice .
what else should it be ?
he came over to call upon baskerville on that first day , and the very next morning he took us both to show us the spot where the legend of the wicked hugo is supposed to have had its origin .
it was my coil of hair .
was it my imagination that there was an undertone of fear rather than of hope in the question ?
we want something more than mere theory and preaching now , though .
at last his perseverance was rewarded .
sufficient for tomorrow is the evil thereof but i hope before the day is past to have the upper hand at last .
now then , mr cocksure ,
my dear sir , the problem had become a very simple one .
oh , yes , he is gone , he is gone ! she fell back against the wall with shriek after shriek of laughter , while i , horrified at this sudden hysterical attack , rushed to the bell to summon help .
my friend replied thoughtfully .
the fact is that upon his entrance i had instantly recognized the extreme personal danger in which i lay .
then we shall both come .
i got as near him as i could , but his observations seemed to me to be absurd , so i withdrew again in some disgust .
do you think i would leave her alone to face the music while i slunk away ?
now , boy , come along , and show what you can do .
to morrow is the ' varsity football match .
i read nothing except the criminal news and the agony column .
one for you , watson ,
one of these ears is a woman 's , small , finely formed , and pierced for an earring .
the latter , however , received his salutations coldly , and followed him with a stern face into the sitting room .
possibly an accident , possibly i only breathe it among ourselves a suicide .
cried soames .
here is what we want .
he was hardly articulate as he spoke of it .
moriarty may have been engaged to engineer it on a promise of part spoils , or he may have been paid so much down to manage it .
you 're angry , robert ,
halloa !
it is my business to know what other people do n't know .
mr culverton smith smiled pleasantly and picked up his smoking cap .
the disconsolate journalist had seated himself at a writing table .
why , bless my soul !
i remember that you expressed one .
that is about the only bit of consolation i have had to day .
halloa !
well , we 've learned all about him in america .
what is it , then ?
come away oh , come away up to the house .
there is a huge error which it may take some little time to rectify .
cried the inspector , laughing
he had been engaged to miss edith woodley , of carstairs , but the engagement had been broken off by mutual consent some months before , and there was no sign that it had left any very profound feeling behind it .
i have had no proof yet of the existence of this jonathan small .
what do you feel ?
the gleam of the match which he struck shone upon his clotted fingers and upon the ghastly pool which widened slowly from the crushed skull of the victim .
he 's on to us !
the dress was a sombre grayish beige , untrimmed and unbraided , and she wore a small turban of the same dull hue , relieved only by a suspicion of white feather in the side .
it was evident that we had entirely miscalculated his movements , that he had never been to his bedroom , but that he had been sitting up in some smoking or billiard room in the farther wing of the house , the windows of which we had not seen .
but we have several small watering places not very far away .
and you will report very carefully to me ,
my blood will be on your head , sir it will , indeed if you drive me to despair .
nothing ?
holmes considered for some little time .
not at all .
holmes pointed with a chuckle to one of these , a row of residential flats , which projected so that they could not fail to catch the eye .
we are the mormons ,
leave go of me !
he has his own little methods , which are , if he will n't mind my saying so , just a little too theoretical and fantastic , but he has the makings of a detective in him .
it swelled up louder and louder , a hoarse yell of pain and fear and anger all mingled in the one dreadful shriek .
but dr mortimer has his practice to attend to , and his house is miles away from yours .
evidently because he saw something in it which had escaped all those generations of country squires , and from which he expected some personal advantage .
well , i do n't insist upon it .
i want to test a little theory of mine ,
but to day must be a day of inquiries .
ah , then he has been at fault too ,
perhaps not with your tongue , my dear watson , but certainly with your eyebrows .
you mean the retired sergeant of marines ,
here was this irreproachable englishman ready to swear in any court of law that the accused was in the house all the time .
whose was it ?
i wired to cambridge to learn if anything had been heard of him there .
he read the passage aloud .
one of them is dead .
that is what we have to find out .
they have laid for five .
finally , an analysis has shown that the remains of his supper left by the stable lad contain an appreciable quantity of powdered opium , while the people at the house partook of the same dish on the same night without any ill effect .
it was not a pure bloodhound and it was not a pure mastiff but it appeared to be a combination of the two gaunt , savage , and as large as a small lioness .
you have neither of you any doubt as to your son 's guilt ?
it is possible .
pull it out , or by the lord that made me there , that will do .
i am never precipitate in my actions , nor would i adopt so energetic and , indeed , so dangerous a course , if any other were possible .
go back to london !
he had some spy in the office who had told him of its existence .
i suggested ,
but this is marvellous .
i saw the heavy footmarks of the constables , but i saw also the track of the two men who had first passed through the garden .
then he stepped into the cab , and in half an hour we were back in the sitting room at baker street .
i have no doubt in my mind that both on the first and on the second occasion that young man penetrated to blessington 's room , while his confederate , by an ingenious device , kept the doctor from interfering .
only one more question , dr mortimer .
i came to you , sir , because i heard of you from mrs etherege , whose husband you found so easy when the police and everyone had given him up for dead .
it was there at the norman conquest in all probability , ' he answered .
i can give you his description , and we have a very excellent outline of his footmark .
the instant that i had crossed the threshold the door slammed heavily behind us , and i heard faintly the rattle of the wheels as the carriage drove away .
the trains which traverse the lines of rail beside which the body was found are those which run from west to east , some being purely metropolitan , and some from willesden and outlying junctions .
and i am for north ,
i cannot agree with you there .
why , then , should you think so meanly of him ?
there was a cheetah , too perhaps we might find it upon our shoulders at any moment .
the coroner : what do you mean ?
clair had last been seen .
british government woolwich .
with tingling nerves but a fixed purpose , i sat in the dark recess of the hut and waited with sombre patience for the coming of its tenant .
these are the traces of the treasure seekers .
he travels for westhouse marbank , the great claret importers of fenchurch street .
mcmurdo was a man who made his mark quickly .
my dear watson ,
powdered opium is by no means tasteless .
he appeared presently , looking a little irritable at being disturbed in his slumbers .
the furniture and pictures were of the most common and vulgar description , save in the one chamber at the window of which i had seen the strange face .
strange , watson , that we should see tracks all along our line , but never a cow on the whole moor .
he had a motive in misleading us .
it was on the d of may that we reached the little village of meiringen , where we put up at the englischer hof , then kept by peter steiler the elder .
six foot three in height , active as a squirrel , dexterous with his fingers , finally , remarkably quick witted , for this whole ingenious story is of his concoction .
never mind .
this way , please !
i am no antiquarian , but i could imagine that they were some unwarlike and harried race who were forced to accept that which none other would occupy .
there he is !
in an instant .
most admirably .
he stooped his head to hers , and she raised one hand as if in protest .
oh , mr holmes , if you could only , only save his honour !
half a dozen , and two to guard the door .
he took my refusal very seriously , but also very gently .
i could , of course , borrow so trifling a sum ten times over from my friends , but i much prefer to make it a matter of business and to carry out that business myself .
grimpen .
it clears every instant .
he cried .
i think that it would be a pleasure to my friend here to take the box round to the young lady to whom half of it rightfully belongs .
we are still faced with some big difficulties but anyhow they have ceased to be impossibilities .
you are certainly joking , holmes .
opening it hurriedly , out there jumped five little dried orange pips , which pattered down upon his plate .
you would also be right in a sense if you said that occasionally he is the british government .
that is your record in this business , mr abe slaney , and you will answer for it to the law .
when it was well alight he and his two companions took to their heels , and were some distance off , safe and snug in a sheltering ditch , before the shattering roar of the explosion , with the low , deep rumble of the collapsing building , told them that their work was done .
why , you had not very much time for talk ,
the man who held me seemed to know my thoughts for , even as i braced myself to it , he whispered , ' do n't make a noise .
it 's enough to scare any man .
baron beverley , earl of carston ' dear me , what a list !
no wind , and not a cloud in the sky .
this man fairbairn is never to darken my door again .
you left them , then , without any premonition of evil ?
yes , it is your boy ,
if you are telegraphing home , mr huxtable , it would be well to allow the people in your neighbourhood to imagine that the inquiry is still going on in liverpool , or wherever else that red herring led your pack .
he was much excited , without either his gun or his hat , and his right hand and sleeve were observed to be stained with fresh blood .
it was he who at once , in an incisive and positive tone , opened the conversation .
he actually sat crying in an arm chair , and i could hardly get him to speak coherently .
i can still remember your complete indifference as to whether the sun moved round the earth or the earth round the sun .
returned jefferson hope promptly , remembering the countersign which he had heard in the garden .
it was a cold , dark march evening , with a sharp wind and a fine rain beating upon our faces , a fit setting for the wild common over which our road passed and the tragic goal to which it led us .
perfectly .
it was a sorely stricken man who lay before us .
are you armed , lestrade ?
you may remember that i was distrait , and remained sitting after you had all alighted .
as you are aware , such devices are common in old libraries .
i met her several times , became engaged to her , and have now married her .
is it possible that he has had a hand in the affair ?
you could not have had them more than a few weeks .
and i believe myself that he is our man .
ah , you must give us a little time ,
rumours had reached the lodge of secret gatherings in the herald office and of distribution of firearms among the law abiding people .
slaney shrugged his shoulders .
he acknowledges that it is his , and declares that he had lost it .
he was on his face , and half a dozen sticks were clattering together as they fell upon him .
i did n't wait to see .
what do you imagine that it means ?
oh , yes , easily .
i confess that i had my doubts myself when i reflected upon the great traffic which had passed along the london road in the interval .
i sat in silent dejection until the stipulated time had passed .
by jove !
a vague feeling of uneasiness began to steal over me .
hotel cosmopolitan jewel robbery .
but a girl always knows .
i should like to have a quiet hour by myself to make up my mind .
i had grieved with her grief in the dining room .
there was some information in them which was new to me .
his insufferable smile was more complacent than ever .
he whispered .
i understood , from something which the colonel told us , that a lawsuit had been going on between you , mr acton , and the cunninghams of course , it instantly occurred to me that they had broken into your library with the intention of getting at some document which might be of importance in the case .
ah , the shadows begin to fall , do they ?
degrees ' , w .
i began to understand what my friend meant when he said that his brother possessed even keener faculties that he did himself .
what do you make of that ?
he may have observed it , for there was a touch of defiance in his voice and manner as he proceeded .
a water barrel .
this was the contortion of the colonel 's face .
it was the same next week , and the same the week after .
lying on his face , he rested his rifle upon a rock , and took a long and steady aim before drawing the trigger .
this dark square is the priory school .
surely you will not withhold it any longer .
this person appears to have been none other than beddington , the famous forger and cracksman , who , with his brother , had only recently emerged from a five years ' spell of penal servitude .
i am afraid , holmes , that you are not very practical with your deductions and your inferences .
now this is not purposeless .
no , that is quite as i expected .
we all have our little ways .
i suggest that we put it in one of the huts until we can communicate with the police .
the latter was a small , alert , dark eyed man about thirty years of age , very sturdily built , with thick black eyebrows and a strong , pugnacious face .
it was useless , however .
no one is stirring yet , but i know where the stable boy sleeps , and we shall soon have the trap out .
holmes 's voice had sunk to an almost inaudible whisper .
ten days later they were married in chicago , with old jacob shafter as witness of the wedding .
why , too , should he write a letter now , rather than six years ago ?
and the man , as the story goes , was so crazed with fear that he could scarce speak , but at last he said that he had indeed seen the unhappy maiden , with the hounds upon her track .
i have known such things to happen .
of course , we always have the optician clue to fall back upon , but i take a short cut when i can get it .
oh , yes , i am sure i shall .
the horse may be at the bottom of one of the pits or old mines upon the moor .
that is likely enough .
not in the least .
and so have i ,
what sober man 's key could have scored those grooves ?
twice as we ascended holmes whipped his lens out of his pocket and carefully examined marks which appeared to me to be mere shapeless smudges of dust upon the cocoa nut matting which served as a stair carpet .
the younger had left us , but he suddenly returned through another door , leading with him a gentleman clad in some sort of loose dressing gown who moved slowly towards us .
it would fit into any box .
well , i think that under the circumstances we may enter without an invitation .
the visitor of the night before was not a gentleman , neither was he a workingman .
they landed me at vauxhall , with my heavy iron box , and with a bluff , genial inspector as my companion .
i do not quite follow ,
we shall be at work before midnight .
the death of captain morstan , the sending of the pearls , the advertisement , the letter , we had had light upon all those events .
the door was open inside , huddled together upon a chair , hunter was sunk in a state of absolute stupor , the favorite 's stall was empty , and there were no signs of his trainer .
well , i guess you have every cause to be .
holmes would not listen to such fancies , and i am his agent .
only a very important issue could call me from london at present .
on discovering their mistake they released him .
get it printed as soon as possible ,
it was about five o'clock , and the shadows of the march evening were beginning to fall , when an excited rustic rushed into our room .
i had a catching of the breath , and my skin went cold at the words , which were slowly uttered in a tone of concentrated resolution .
i shall feel more at ease when we have our story teller here safe under lock and key .
i suppose that we are absolutely safe from eavesdroppers ?
never in the delirious dream of a disordered brain could anything more savage , more appalling , more hellish be conceived than that dark form and savage face which broke upon us out of the wall of fog .
i 'll be back by three ,
then i had a way of checking my calculation .
here is lafter hall , which was mentioned in the narrative .
he is not a man with intimate friends .
very sincerely yours ,
mr carruthers was very kind and very musical , and we had most pleasant evenings together .
give me your coat and umbrella ,
if not , it is not for me to force her confidence .
well now , i think that really should give us the last link that we wanted .
when you combine the ideas of whistles at night , the presence of a band of gipsies who are on intimate terms with this old doctor , the fact that we have every reason to believe that the doctor has an interest in preventing his stepdaughter 's marriage , the dying allusion to a band , and , finally , the fact that miss helen stoner heard a metallic clang , which might have been caused by one of those metal bars that secured the shutters falling back into its place , i think that there is good ground to think that the mystery may be cleared along those lines .
you can just see if you look at it sideways where the sharp spring like a viper 's tooth emerges as you open it .
did your wife hear all this ?
there has been no result .
i sent a hundred pounds to the nurse , and i gave her instructions about this cottage , so that she might come as a neighbor , without my appearing to be in any way connected with her .
have you a couple of days to spare ?
for that reason , after his arrival , the fire was lit .
who do you give your casting vote to ?
he gripped morris 's shoulder and shook him in his earnestness .
the ceiling of this small chamber is really the end of the descending piston , and it comes down with the force of many tons upon this metal floor .
no , sir i had said nothing to my wife until i missed the paper this morning .
there is no devil in hell , mr holmes , and there is no man upon earth who can prevent me from going to the home of my own people , and you may take that to be my final answer .
that one on the immediate right of the drawbridge .
they never doubted that i was dead , and i meant that they never should .
these last words were shot out of him , as though the constraint which he was evidently setting upon himself had suddenly and utterly burst asunder .
can you tell the position of the rooms ?
and perhaps , after all , it is for the best .
we are going too far ,
the nobleman 's reply was interrupted by his secretary , who broke in with some heat .
if we were to come to stoke moran to day , would it be possible for us to see over these rooms without the knowledge of your stepfather ?
i was telling sir henry that it was rather late for him to see the true beauties of the moor .
no , by thunder we have come out to get our man , and we will do it .
their wholesale price was six shillings , but the retailer would get twelve or more .
get your hat ,
oh , you did , did you ?
otherwise they could not have imagined that i had returned to my rooms they have evidently taken the precaution of watching you , however , and that is what has brought moriarty to victoria .
sure , that was what i meant i 'm in your hands ,
you only told us , or rather your wife only told us , when it was forced from you and you could not help yourself .
indeed , yes , mr douglas ,
it was something terrible and deadly .
how is any news or any message to reach him from without ?
sherlock holmes clapped his hands softly together and chuckled .
he had a horror of destroying documents , especially those which were connected with his past cases , and yet it was only once in every year or two that he would muster energy to docket and arrange them for , as i have mentioned somewhere in these incoherent memoirs , the outbursts of passionate energy when he performed the remarkable feats with which his name is associated were followed by reactions of lethargy during which he would lie about with his violin and his books , hardly moving save from the sofa to the table .
finally he took refuge in a somewhat acrid irony .
i pushed my precautions so far as to order her to keep the child in the house during the daytime , and to cover up her little face and hands so that even those who might see her at the window should not gossip about there being a black child in the neighborhood .
this is for your private eye .
ah , but i sleep more heavily than you .
can we ?
we have nothing against him .
then it was not arthur who took them ?
his name , it appeared , was beppo , second name unknown .
away they went , and i was just wondering whether i should not do well to follow them when up the lane came a neat little landau , the coachman with his coat only half buttoned , and his tie under his ear , while all the tags of his harness were sticking out of the buckles .
then tell me , and i shall let him know .
the other mansions belonged to prosaic and respectable people who live far aloof from romance .
holmes !
in this way i am no doubt indirectly responsible for dr grimesby roylott 's death , and i cannot say that it is likely to weigh very heavily upon my conscience .
well , good morning , hopkins .
a hand grip passed between the two .
in an instant it was obvious that we had at last come upon the true place , and that we had not been the only people to visit the spot recently .
th , rooms s .
that was enough for me .
he was not remarkable for intelligence , and his answers were frequently obscure , which i attributed to his limited acquaintance with our language .
holmes was outwardly calm , but his whole body gave a wriggle of suppressed excitement as he spoke .
no doubt , doctor and yet the conversation may prove more important than the treatise .
i observed ,
but there are some pretty little problems among them .
so it ended by his going off with her , as you saw , and here am i as badly puzzled a man as any in this county .
the family of lord robert st .
criminals ?
this , i take it , belongs to the room in which you used to sleep , the centre one to your sister 's , and the one next to the main building to dr roylott 's chamber ?
her eyes and hair were of the same rich hazel colour , and her cheeks , though considerably freckled , were flushed with the exquisite bloom of the brunette , the dainty pink which lurks at the heart of the sulphur rose .
put the papers on the sundial , ' i read , peeping over his shoulder .
he lent me a book but i do n't mind saying that it was a bit above my head , though i had a good aberdeen upbringing .
we shall see the noble lord to day and find out if he can tell us anything .
we had formed no theories .
where are the slippers now ?
i begged a fortnight 's grace from the creditor , asked for a holiday from my employers , and spent the time in begging in the city under my disguise .
naturally .
i am afraid , my dear colonel , that you must regret the hour that you took in such a stormy petrel as i am .
i am glad to stretch myself , watson ,
i think that it is fairly obvious .
just put your hand here on this poor fellow 's arm , and here on his leg .
it is quite a pretty little problem ,
holmes himself had said that no more complex case had come to him in all the long series of his sensational investigations .
he naturally wanted money .
one has to be cautious , mister .
it could not be here .
there is one other small point upon which i desire some light .
i am a private detective , and i am endeavouring to explain his disappearance .
it is a series of lessons with the greatest for the last .
i tried to speak lightly to our worthy landlady , but i was myself somewhat uneasy when through the long night i still from time to time heard the dull sound of his tread , and knew how his keen spirit was chafing against this involuntary inaction .
that was last friday , mr holmes , and i have never seen or heard anything since then to throw any light upon what became of him .
he was still speculating as to what this might mean when he heard the clatter of horse 's hoofs , and saw a mounted man riding towards him .
cried the detective , with the air of a showman exhibiting his show .
from where i stood i could see hundreds of the black fiends , with their red coats still on their backs , dancing and howling round the burning house .
i shall be in a fever until i see you again ,
ah , i have no data .
his agitation was so great that he could hardly speak , and the shadows sprang up and down from the shaking of his candle .
the honourable ronald adair was the second son of the earl of maynooth , at that time governor of one of the australian colonies .
has mr sherlock holmes ?
you will convey the very impression which is in your own mind a dying man a dying and delirious man .
i was expecting you , but you are a trifle before your time .
i think that i could be of assistance to you .
i do n't care a plug which you do .
excuse me an instant ,
what is in that cupboard in the bureau ?
i will call at four o'clock in the afternoon , and , should you have any other engagement at that time , i hope that you will postpone it , as this matter is of paramount importance .
no , no nothing .
well , we had no particular reason to make a careful examination of the hall .
it went through my heart like a knife .
but if these big companies find that we stand between them and their profits , they will spare no pains and no expense to hunt us down and bring us to court .
consider the facts , sir it is inconceivable that it was taken after eleven thirty at night , since i understand that mr hope and his wife were both in the room from that hour until the loss was found out .
your work ?
one great gray bird , a gull or curlew , soared aloft in the blue heaven .
but wait an instant !
there is no clue ?
if not , i 'll have no more to do with you .
off i set to him , and after much chaffering i got our stones at pounds apiece .
cried holmes , clapping the inspector on the back .
was there any romance , anything secret or mysterious , about the wedding ?
holmes had been seated for some hours in silence with his long , thin back curved over a chemical vessel in which he was brewing a particularly malodorous product .
now follow me , and we shall soon know all .
that also i could fathom .
he fell with a groan and never moved again .
when a moment later i saw your eyes wander away from the picture , i suspected that your mind had now turned to the civil war , and when i observed that your lips set , your eyes sparkled , and your hands clinched , i was positive that you were indeed thinking of the gallantry which was shown by both sides in that desperate struggle .
he was nearly expelled over a card scandal in his first year .
it is grotesque , watson ,
but he never brought light into anything quite so dark as this ?
and your father ?
and then this alec fairbairn chipped in , and things became a thousand times blacker .
it seemed funny that i should ask his leave , as he was only a few years older than me but i did n't want to do anything on the sly , so i wrote to father at bordeaux , where the company has its french offices , but the letter came back to me on the very morning of the wedding .
but now , mr inspector , i understand , from what you said when you entered the room , that you can carry the story on , and that some tragedy had occurred .
i made shorthand notes of all that she said , however , so that there should be no possibility of a mistake .
it came with the wind through the silence of the night , a long , deep mutter , then a rising howl , and then the sad moan in which it died away .
it 's all been done before , and will be again .
there are only two women in the house , sir henry ,
so amazed was i that i threw out my hand to make sure that the man himself was standing beside me .
but you will find that all i say is really to the point .
far away came the sharp clink of a boot striking upon a stone .
the standard commented upon the fact that lawless outrages of the sort usually occurred under a liberal administration .
by jove !
he opened the yellow envelope , and then , glancing at the message , threw it across to me .
that 's well thought of .
it was a quarter to ten before we reached london bridge , and half past before the four of us alighted on the beckenham platform .
she shot him and then herself so the servants say .
now that shows real application !
i endeavoured to tie my handkerchief round it , but there came a sudden buzzing in my ears , and next moment i fell in a dead faint among the rose bushes .
who is your confederate out yonder , and what is this conspiracy that is going on ?
had sir charles received any other letters in the same writing ?
did she ever talk of revisiting the place ?
the barrister who has his case at his fingers ' ends and is able to argue with an expert upon his own subject finds that a week or two of the courts will drive it all out of his head once more .
they are both trusty servants who have been with us for some time .
did the stable boy , when he ran out with the dog , leave the door unlocked behind him ?
yes , i did .
what papers ?
test him !
when you bared your arm to draw that fish into the boat i saw that j .
holmes struck his hand passionately upon the rock in front of us and stamped his feet in his impatience .
no , do n't ,
ryder quivered with emotion .
everything depends on speed .
here is a pen .
what do you make of the other ?
i had this fellow 's stride both on the clay outside and on the dust within .
he has some small matter upon his mind which makes him restless .
in this great stretch of country there is no sign of life , nor of anything appertaining to life .
my client will certainly do what i may advise .
perhaps miss ettie can tell you something about it .
we flashed past barges , steamers , merchant vessels , in and out , behind this one and round the other .
then he offered to give us a chance of talking to lord st .
there is one obvious point which would , in any case , have turned my suspicions against lucas .
we will leave this question undecided and hark back to our morass again , for we have left a good deal unexplored .
just one hint to you , lestrade ,
the daughter told us as much .
i have told you that i had picked up something of medicine .
what does it mean ?
we have let this affair go far enough ,
you are right , watson ,
he is curiously employed at present , for , being an amateur astronomer , he has an excellent telescope , with which he lies upon the roof of his own house and sweeps the moor all day in the hope of catching a glimpse of the escaped convict .
at euston station they got out , and i left a boy to hold my horse , and followed them on to the platform .
in your picturesque account of the matter , which i read with great interest some months later , you assert that the wall was sheer .
it struck me that so astute a man as straker would not undertake this delicate tendon nicking without a little practice .
and had remembered all that he had learned .
it is absurd to suppose that you have two enemies , one of whom robs you , while the other threatens your life .
but a times leader is entirely distinctive , and these words could have been taken from nothing else .
he could not possibly have been drowned in the moat , which was at no place more than three feet deep .
then , when everything was fixed , he rang the bell for all he was worth .
these injuries are really appalling .
there is surely something more than that ,
the daily telegraph remarked that in the history of crime there had seldom been a tragedy which presented stranger features .
i have not noticed them for months .
he was accompanied by a little elderly gentleman , who was introduced to me as the mr acton whose house had been the scene of the original burglary .
our visitor 's face had turned ashen gray as he listened to the words of his accuser .
those are as clear as print ,
could it have gone up the river ?
he added , as the wheels of the royal brougham rolled down the street .
the evidence against him is certainly very strong .
he would not go to the police , and he would not go to you , and so at last , as he would do nothing and kept on saying that there was no harm done , it made me mad , and i just on with my things and came right away to you .
i went to it on my knees , sir , just as you told me .
i did so and became at once conscious of an extraordinary throbbing and commotion which was going on inside .
she 's not that old green launch with a yellow line , very broad in the beam ?
i do n't quite understand how you can be so sure .
pray continue ,
as you are aware , e is the most common letter in the english alphabet , and it predominates to so marked an extent that even in a short sentence one would expect to find it most often .
i think that fortune is very kind to us .
it was his life or mine , but far more than that , it was his life or hers , for how could i leave her in the power of this madman ?
i think that we might venture a little farther than this .
the two statesmen exchanged a quick glance and the premier 's shaggy eyebrows gathered in a frown .
that 's what bothers me i can n't put my hand on a motive .
you will see it often in humans .
we must catch her !
give her her head .
that would have accounted for his stealthy movements and also for the uneasiness of his wife .
it was absolutely necessary to do it in the open air .
max linder co .
you appear to be astonished ,
there is no branch of detective science which is so important and so much neglected as the art of tracing footsteps .
mcfarlane wiped his damp brow , and then continued his narrative :
brother morris ,
yes , i am convinced that this is so .
carruthers nodded and williamson swore .
by some juggling of the clocks it is quite possible that they may have got scott eccles to bed earlier than he thought , but in any case it is likely that when garcia went out of his way to tell him that it was one it was really not more than twelve .
before daybreak , however , they were up and on their way once more .
he seized the young man 's leathery hand and wrung it cordially .
the rucastles will be gone by that time , and toller will , we hope , be incapable .
come out ,
or perhaps you are too tired ?
we can n't let such a situation continue .
our scent runs cold here , and there is a vast gap between either hypothesis and the laying of west 's body , with seven papers in his pocket , on the roof of a metropolitan train .
you have at least the satisfaction of knowing that for thirty years of his life his conscience bitterly reproached him for this wicked deed .
i tell you , brethren , that our hand is too heavy in this valley , and that there will come a point where in self defense every man will unite to crush us out .
my host had shown me which was his bedroom the night before , so i knocked at the door .
one moment !
what can it mean ?
one has to be discreet when one talks of high matters of state .
but at night well , there he is with his wife , three children , and a hired help .
if you will let me know how your investigations go ,
then i began to think of holmes 's own methods and to try to practise them in reading this tragedy .
look here , watson you look regularly done .
it is used as an ordeal poison by the medicine men in certain districts of west africa and is kept as a secret among them .
however , our conjectures were set at rest by a visit from stapleton himself that very afternoon .
it was an excellent hiding place which she had arranged .
she shuddered and buried her face in her hands .
no , i cannot .
here 's a cigar , and the doctor has a prescription containing hot water and a lemon , which is good medicine on a night like this .
mr sherlock holmes is out , i understand .
but the writing is not his own .
let nothing prevent you from staying where you are all day .
what was the past of this trevor , pugilist , traveler , and gold digger , and how had he placed himself in the power of this acid faced seaman ?
i think that i had better go , holmes .
you were recalling the incidents of beecher 's career .
cecil barker 's tall , loose jointed figure was a familiar one in the main street of birlstone village for he was a frequent and welcome visitor at the manor house .
the bicycle may have been a blind .
then the west section coaling company has paid its annual contribution .
suppose that cadogan west wished to make his way into the building after hours he would need three keys , would he not , before he could reach the papers ?
it will break my mother 's heart it will break her heart !
there was one sergeant that was horribly wounded and yet kept on swimming for a surprising time , until some one in mercy blew out his brains .
we strode off together to the station , leaving lestrade still staring with a delighted face at the card which holmes had thrown him .
ay , what 's the game ?
he would show me how to turn the stone into money .
you got my telegram ?
there are at least six words of the message which have escaped us but what remains ' stand by us for god 's sake !
i will tell you how the land lies , watson .
for the sake of the sister i was friendly with the brothers .
if one is missing especially if he has disappeared since last night we will have some indication as to where the document has gone .
can you think of no other way you could have got this thing ?
i cried .
i have heard your name , mr sherlock holmes , and i am aware of your profession one of which i by no means approve .
written with a j pen on royal cream paper by a middle aged man with a weak constitution .
an instant later a white faced , hard breathing policeman had opened the door , the candle wavering in his trembling hand .
the boy locked the door before he left it .
i did not at all expect to be so accurate .
what has become of the cabman who drove them ?
he had now come to the mouth of the very defile in which he had left them .
he drank a great deal of brandy and smoked very heavily , but he would see no society and did not want any friends , not even his own brother .
sir eustace is dead , then ?
he is connected with the mafia , which , as you know , is a secret political society , enforcing its decrees by murder .
in five minutes we were outside the door , starting upon our expedition .
i 'll wipe my hand across your face if you say such words to me !
the thing has got to be stopped right now .
i am delighted to hear it ,
a few minutes later the train ran into the ill lit station , and there was a general clearing for vermissa was by far the largest town on the line .
i realize that your words applied to mr james wilder , and that he is not the murderer .
it had set , according to their account , into the most dreadful expression of fear and horror which a human countenance is capable of assuming .
i think that i mentioned to you that the doctor kept a cheetah and a baboon .
every success to your investigation , be the criminal who it may ,
it is a formidable difficulty , and i fear that you ask too much when you expect me to solve it .
because i had only just learned that he was going to london next day and might be away for months .
you gave me a few particulars in your letter , mr hilton cubitt , but i should be very much obliged if you would kindly go over it all again for the benefit of my friend , dr watson .
i 've had to do with fifty murderers in my career , but the worst of them never gave me the repulsion which i have for this fellow .
lestrade is a well known detective .
holmes hunted about among the grass and leaves like a retriever after a wounded bird .
holmes was cold and stern and silent .
the deceased was an american gentleman who had been residing for some weeks in the metropolis .
after some persuasion upon the stairs mrs douglas had gone back .
any news , inspector ?
being the seventh of january , we have very properly laid in the new almanac .
rachel who is a very good girl , but of an excitable welsh temperament had a sharp touch of brain fever , and goes about the house now or did until yesterday like a black eyed shadow of her former self .
i think that you remarked to your uncle last night that she had been out to see him ?
she must be an accomplice , and will lead me to him .
had i been recognised in that den my life would not have been worth an hour 's purchase for i have used it before now for my own purposes , and the rascally lascar who runs it has sworn to have vengeance upon me .
it gave the name and the church but not where the lady lived .
he drew in the smoke of his cigarette as if the soothing influence was grateful to him .
you have not seen him since yesterday ?
you appear to me ,
it was about ten minutes before we regained our cab and drove back into ross , holmes still carrying with him the stone which he had picked up in the wood .
there were a number of letters , bills , and notebooks , which holmes turned over and examined with quick , nervous fingers and darting , penetrating eyes .
the afternoon was far advanced before we were able to snatch a hasty luncheon at a restaurant .
i heard him call my mistress a name , and i told him that he would not dare to speak so if her brother had been there .
she put her hand in his without a word .
it was evident to me that she was saying what was false .
on the other side of this hedge , concealed from the eyes of anyone approaching from the direction of the house , there was a stone seat .
if it were only so .
i managed to be close to her so as to hear the address , but i need not have been so anxious , for she sang it out loud enough to be heard at the other side of the street , ' drive to , duncan street , houndsditch , ' she cried .
there is a distinct element of danger .
he and papa were in command of the troops at the andaman islands , so they were thrown a great deal together .
what an exposure !
these massacres are invariably concluded by a cannibal feast .
yes , yes , so you are .
then as he grew older he met wicked companions , and the devil entered into him until he broke my mother 's heart and dragged our name in the dirt .
well , i do n't like it , but i suppose it must be ,
it hinged from the outset upon the pince nez .
we must be circumspect , for we are dealing with a very cunning man .
perfectly .
he gasped .
my dear holmes : if i was compelled to leave you without much news during the early days of my mission you must acknowledge that i am making up for lost time , and that events are now crowding thick and fast upon us .
holmes was silent , but his little darting glances showed me the interest which he took in our curious companion .
sherlock holmes and i surveyed this curt announcement and the rueful face behind it , until the comical side of the affair so completely overtopped every other consideration that we both burst out into a roar of laughter .
i spotted that harpoon upon the wall , and i thought i might need it before i was through .
i shall probably find some work awaiting me .
i 'll show you how we serve them in king 's pyland .
with these i journeyed down to streatham and saw that they exactly fitted the tracks .
they set fire to our rooms last night .
if they fire , watson , have no compunction about shooting them down .
he had only one thing to recommend him , and that was his energy .
the cliff is so high that to climb it all was an obvious impossibility , and it was equally impossible to make my way along the wet path without leaving some tracks .
see the people concerned !
a thick fog rolled down between the lines of dun coloured houses , and the opposing windows loomed like dark , shapeless blurs through the heavy yellow wreaths .
for myself , i do n't believe it was an ordinary thief .
the party crossed the road , and , pushing open the door of the newspaper office , baldwin and his men rushed in and up the stair which faced them .
i make you a free present of it .
you have got it !
what 's this ?
plays the violin well .
the holy four ,
judging by its effect upon my brother , i should think it must be a most extraordinary one .
am i right ?
is he reliable ?
against their lurid background dark figures were bending and straining , twisting and turning , with the motion of winch or of windlass , to the rhythm of an eternal clank and roar .
what beats me is the utter want of all object in the crime .
he 'll be here when he promised ,
then , when i flash a light upon them , close in swiftly .
your neighbor is a doctor ,
come , watson ,
weighed down with his burden , and weary from his exertions , he stumbled along , keeping up his heart by the reflection that every step brought him nearer to lucy , and that he carried with him enough to ensure them food for the remainder of their journey .
wait a bit !
there are the horses , there is the smithy .
there is no doubt that you have detected and defeated in the most complete manner one of the most determined attempts at bank robbery that have ever come within my experience .
curse you !
they have given up the chase there , and he can lie quiet until the ship is ready for him .
he arranged a number of bread crumbs in this fashion : : : : : and sometimes like this : .
i will do it .
for all these reasons i expected them to come to night .
what , are you off ?
you never did fail me .
one was an old woman , whose name is not mentioned , and the other was william crowder , a game keeper in the employ of mr turner .
good heavens !
a lath and plaster partition had been run across the passage six feet from the end , with a door cunningly concealed in it .
a brougham and pair of grays , under the glare of a gas lamp , stood before the doctor 's door .
served in jowaki campaign , afghan campaign , charasiab despatches , sherpur , and cabul .
with trembling fingers i flung back the lid .
confirms it in every respect ,
this family consisted of only two individuals john douglas and his wife .
you need not concern yourself about that ,
that i show myself up as such a confounded fool .
very likely not .
the paper !
you 're not going away in an unkind spirit , hudson , i hope , said my father , with a tameness which made my blood boil .
then i lost sight of him .
we have been conducing a chemical experiment indoors which has left our little room hardly fit for the reception of so distinguished a visitor .
and the practice ?
cried holmes , and i heard the sharp click of a cocking pistol .
they exactly correspond , so i gather that the lady went back to the same establishment for the second .
you look cold , mr ryder .
on the left ran a lane which led to the stables , and was not itself within the grounds at all , being a public , though little used , thoroughfare .
at any rate , i am in your hands .
what do you think of such a commission as that ?
is n't the place full of police and detectives and what harm did they ever do us ?
he cried , and then he choked and laughed again until he was obliged to lie back , limp and helpless , in the chair .
i know milverton 's house as i know the palm of my hand .
i telegraphed to the head of the police at cleveland , limiting my enquiry to the circumstances connected with the marriage of enoch drebber .
i have wired to overton to let us know any fresh london developments at this address , and in the meantime we can only concentrate our attention upon dr armstrong , whose name the obliging young lady at the office allowed me to read upon the counterfoil of staunton 's urgent message .
who let you out ?
far away on the extreme verge of the alkali plain there rose up a little spray of dust , very slight at first , and hardly to be distinguished from the mists of the distance , but gradually growing higher and broader until it formed a solid , well defined cloud .
my companion sat in the front of the trap , his arms folded , his hat pulled down over his eyes , and his chin sunk upon his breast , buried in the deepest thought .
he had no friends at all save the wandering gipsies , and he would give these vagabonds leave to encamp upon the few acres of bramble covered land which represent the family estate , and would accept in return the hospitality of their tents , wandering away with them sometimes for weeks on end .
now , cartwright , there are the names of twenty three hotels here , all in the immediate neighbourhood of charing cross .
she could not remain where she was .
cried dr trevelyan .
no , sir
clair , of lee , in the county of kent .
the greek e with the peculiar top flourish is distinctive .
when you know me better you will understand that i cannot always give reasons for what i say or do .
that is easily got .
they spoke of those hours of burrowing .
none or all , ' i answered .
you will excuse me , however , if i speak frankly to you .
her next movement was as unexpected as it was spirited .
what smouldering fire of vengeance had suddenly sprung into flame in this passionate celtic woman 's soul when she saw the man who had wronged her wronged her , perhaps , far more than we suspected in her power ?
i think that you might offer me a cigar too ,
no , i fancy chiswick is an address which is more likely to find him .
i do n't know whether you are playing a game with us , mr sherlock holmes ,
i will explain the matter to you later .
on the edge of a jutting pinnacle , three or four hundred feet above him , there stood a creature somewhat resembling a sheep in appearance , but armed with a pair of gigantic horns .
we 've had just a little too much secrecy over this business already .
i am sorry , lancaster , but the berth is full .
pierrot .
as it turns out your presence was unnecessary , and i would have brought the case to this successful issue without you , but , none the less , i am grateful .
married yesterday that 's what those flags are for on the endowment house .
dear me !
for my sake , ted , if ever you loved me , be big hearted and forgiving !
funny , she did n't say good bye she ' most always did if she was just goin ' over to auntie 's for tea , and now she 's been away three days .
holmes led the way up the curving , uncarpeted stair .
because i knew it was nowhere else .
but as to your own researches , if there is any possible way in which i can be of service to you i trust that you will command me .
by gar !
it is not a very manly thing , mr holmes , to come here and browbeat a woman .
uniform away for repairs .
i think your idea is an excellent one .
it was not a photograph but an ivory miniature , and the artist had brought out the full effect of the lustrous black hair , the large dark eyes , and the exquisite mouth .
then he staggered to his feet , received another shot , and rolled upon the floor .
not at all .
let 's have the facts .
the shadow had fallen even darker over the valley .
then you leave my employment right away .
in god 's name , what does it all mean ?
the london press has not had very full accounts .
she raised her dark eyebrows .
snarled the ex convict .
after the bridge was up my mind was always more restful when that bridge was up in the evenings i put the thing clear out of my head .
a savage !
he roared with his fists clenched .
will you go ?
certainly not .
i trust that i have my share , ' i said .
the night was fine , but still it was a very weary vigil .
in a few minutes i shall probably hear it from your own lips .
it is more handy than a label , as there is no risk of the number being lost or transposed .
holmes chuckled heartily .
well , it is a little awkward , for i have a business already ,
what do you intend to do , miss morstan ?
i only ask a little patience , mr mac , and all will be clear to you .
holmes moved the lamp , and we both bent over the sheet of paper , which showed by its ragged edge that it had indeed been torn from a book .
this was clearly the cause of the loss of power , and i pointed it out to my companions , who followed my remarks very carefully and asked several practical questions as to how they should proceed to set it right .
yet , safe as it was , we determined to neglect no precaution , and to make our attack suddenly by night .
if you kick up any more row i 'll open the kennels and let out forty three dogs upon you .
it becomes coherent .
it is indeed , mr holmes .
he stretched out his long arm to turn the lamp away from himself and towards the vacant chair upon which a newcomer must sit .
i was an officer in chicago before ever i came to this darned coal bunker , and i know a chicago crook when i see one .
i left him full of the image of this magnificent intellect babbling like a foolish child .
and yet even here we may discriminate .
i rushed from the horrible scene , ran from the house , and only next morning in the paper did i learn the dreadful result .
in each case , also , there is combustion going on in the room in the one case a fire , in the other a lamp .
as he looked at it , he observed that there were flags in some of the principal streets , and other signs of festivity .
we walked , and our way took us close to the office .
that night i made up the packet for sarah cushing , and next day i sent it from belfast .
indeed .
i 'll write and resign , ' said i .
and then you were together five years in california , so that this business dates back not less than eleven years at the least ?
a short walk across the moor took us to the hollow in which the body had been found .
a frenchman or russian could not have written that .
i can assure you that every word i have said is the truth , and that , outside of what i have told you , i know absolutely nothing about the fate of this man .
no crime , but a very great error has been committed ,
i know nothing of this .
if it 's right or if it 's wrong , it 's for you to decide .
maybe i 'm a coward .
it is conjectured that he may have been hurrying down to catch the last train from waterloo station , and that in his haste and the extreme darkness he missed his path and walked over the edge of one of the small landing places for river steamboats .
an expression of irresolution passed for an instant over her face , but her eyes had hardened again when she answered me .
the earth round the spike had been left on the table , and a second sample was loosened and fell in the bedroom .
excellent , watson !
at least you have his assurance that your horse will run ,
well , they ought to be , but they 've had a lawsuit for some years which has sucked the blood out of both of them , i fancy .
the crime was of interest in itself , but that interest was as nothing to me compared to the inconceivable sequel , which afforded me the greatest shock and surprise of any event in my adventurous life .
the night was so wet that no one was about , so charpentier dragged the body of his victim into the empty house .
it appears that last week a new clerk named hall pycroft was engaged by the firm .
now , look here , captain crocker , this is a very serious matter , though i am willing to admit that you acted under the most extreme provocation to which any man could be subjected .
yes , sir he told me that a gipsy had done it for him when he was a lad .
then , what clue could you have as to his identity ?
good bye , and never hesitate night or day to send for me if i can be of service .
putting down his cigar he softly clapped his fat hands .
the day had been wet , and sir charles 's footmarks were easily traced down the alley .
this leads to his murder by someone who is , we will suppose , an avenger , someone from outside .
this case grows upon me , watson ,
you are the very man for us .
he received us in his quietly genial fashion , ordered fresh rashers and eggs , and joined us in a hearty meal .
well , jonathan small ,
he shall pack out of there with his baggage .
no , i will n't smoke , i thank you .
i soon managed to get the address of the receiver who had them , on promising him that there would be no prosecution .
he is as brave as a bulldog and as tenacious as a lobster if he gets his claws upon anyone .
is there anything that would prevent me from making a good husband to a woman that i loved ?
i walked round the corner , saw the city and suburban bank abutted on our friend 's premises , and felt that i had solved my problem .
holmes smiled at the compliment .
holmes sighed , wearily .
what steps will you take ?
we are thrown rather together .
he brought round both hat and goose to me on christmas morning , knowing that even the smallest problems are of interest to me .
presently she came back up the road again , her head haughtily in the air , not deigning to take any further notice of her silent attendant .
that 's the agreement .
then how could you know ?
and the next stage ?
oh , he has his faults , too ,
a few small footholds presented themselves , and there was some indication of a ledge .
cried the chairman , tossing the paper down upon the table .
i was uneasy about sir henry .
were there gipsies in the plantation at the time ?
he had his suspicions before , and he followed me as you describe .
the girl was taken to her room , still screaming and sobbing , while i made inquiries about brunton .
so it was to day .
as holmes turned up the lamp the light fell upon a card on the table .
he was sick to death , and had gone to a lonely place to die .
he waved his hand to the sofa , and our palpitating visitor with his agitated companion sat side by side upon it .
he thought no more of the matter until he heard in the evening of the tragedy that had occurred .
sherlock holmes was pacing up and down the platform , his tall , gaunt figure made even gaunter and taller by his long grey travelling cloak and close fitting cloth cap .
the staves of the barrel and the wheels of the trolley were smeared with a dark liquid , and the whole air was heavy with the smell of creasote .
and brought ' em on sharp .
i can n't quite make it out .
he glared from one to the other of us with a pair of blazing black eyes .
you coward !
it struck me that it might have been fastened by a mere oversight , so i took out my bunch of keys and tried to open it .
by the way , i have had a letter from lord holdhurst .
no names , please !
that is the centre of country gossip .
i want your opinion as a judicious man as a man of the world .
now , you remember the sudden end of the engagement between the honourable miss miles and colonel dorking ?
what do you think is the cause of so strange a sound ?
ah , here is simpson to report .
she would do better to trust me .
yet there never was a man who deserved punishment more .
well , i first had the hammer examined .
she was certainly much moved .
but i would n't get about too much with morris .
it ended with the statement :
they are right deep down into it .
dr roylott then abandoned his attempts to establish himself in practice in london and took us to live with him in the old ancestral house at stoke moran .
then we went to the garden , as you remember , and we saw the very singular contents of the little yellow box .
in absolute silence we crouched amongst the bushes , waiting for whatever might come .
when they came out their hands were crimson to the wrists .
clair has most kindly put two rooms at my disposal , and you may rest assured that she will have nothing but a welcome for my friend and colleague .
oh , it 's jack , is it ?
there are the wheels , watson .
for desolate it was !
it was indeed a gigantic one , and capable of exercising enormous pressure .
it 's him or us .
i tried all i could to coax elsie away .
the gossip among the servants is that their master is terribly afraid of something .
he has given them the slip .
mccarthy threatened .
still in his bedroom .
he was well liked by the few neighbours who called upon him , and he has the reputation down there of being a very learned man .
what think you of our ways , brother ?
well , after the murder i calculated that beppo would probably hurry rather than delay his movements .
there on the flesh of the forearm was a circle with a triangle within it , deep and red , as the branding iron had left it .
the moment that hilton cubitt 's broad back had disappeared through the door my comrade rushed to the table , laid out all the slips of paper containing dancing men in front of him , and threw himself into an intricate and elaborate calculation .
no , distinctly professional .
the detective stared at the newcomer with blank amazement .
he only repeated what some fool had said at the inquest .
lestrade .
good afternoon , miss stoner .
and now came the great question as to the reason why .
not in a good cause .
stop at a telegraph office , cabby !
he will find it as sure a precursor of his fate as openshaw did before him .
number thirteen is ' mahratta .
the butler 's account was a simple and a clear one , and he gave a convincing impression of sincerity .
we are the persecuted children of god the chosen of the angel merona .
no , indeed .
meanwhile ,
he turned in at the hall gates , and dismounted from his machine .
then , with the gesture of a man who has taken his decision , he sprang to his feet and passed into his bedroom .
he handed over the book , and i read :
there was a colored gas lamp inside which was turned so low that i could see little save that the hall was of some size and hung with pictures .
i assure you that our most pan germanic junker is a sucking dove in his feelings towards england as compared with a real bitter irish american .
as we rolled into eyford station we saw a gigantic column of smoke which streamed up from behind a small clump of trees in the neighbourhood and hung like an immense ostrich feather over the landscape .
i guess it 's never too late .
you must have returned about the time of his marriage .
she would not have said ' godspeed ' had it not been so .
i heard her voice downstairs , but i knew that she could not ascend .
you have formed your opinion !
you , a doctor you are enough to drive a patient into an asylum .
they are in a state of extreme contraction , far exceeding the usual rigor mortis .
i called at allan brothers ' , the chief land agents in the village , and found that it was from this firm that the villa had been rented .
from india !
we must have an amnesty in that direction , i think .
, duncan street , houndsditch .
if you can say definitely , for example , that some murder has been done by a man who was smoking an indian lunkah , it obviously narrows your field of search .
his eyes shifted as he said it .
we were coming out of the ice pack on our way home , with head winds and a week 's southerly gale , when we picked up a little craft that had been blown north .
our friend 's title , his fortune , his age , his character , and his appearance are all in his favour , and i know nothing against him unless it be this dark fate which runs in his family .
i should say so .
you 'll find that my theory of the mafia will work out all right .
we have learned the truth in sorrow and in suffering .
i do n't quite know , sir between ourselves , i think mr holmes had not quite got over his illness yet .
no doubt you think me mad ?
we found holmes pacing up and down in the field , his chin sunk upon his breast , and his hands thrust into his trousers pockets .
oh , she has turned all the men 's heads down in that part .
there is death in one and life in the other .
gasped our client .
my dear mr sherlock holmes : lord backwater tells me that i may place implicit reliance upon your judgment and discretion .
and here ah , now , this really is something a little recherch .
the fact is that i knew this fellow milverton , that i considered him one of the most dangerous men in london , and that i think there are certain crimes which the law cannot touch , and which therefore , to some extent , justify private revenge .
that is important .
footprints .
he and his friends had hardly crouched down before the melancholy hooting of a mountain owl was heard within a few yards of them , which was immediately answered by another hoot at a small distance .
holmes thought a little and then burst out laughing .
i expect the big companies will find it easier to pay than to fight , same as the little companies do .
it is absolutely impossible ,
i belong to a society that i know only as an innocent one .
you may possibly have read my little monograph upon the subject .
chance has put in our way a most singular and whimsical problem , and its solution is its own reward .
on the palm were three little pyramids of black , doughy clay .
cried holmes with enthusiasm .
and there , in the middle of it , was the man himself his face twisted like a lost soul in torment , and his great brindled beard stuck upward in his agony .
we can n't do these things in the force , mr holmes ,
as she whisked round to us , i gave a cry of surprise and horror .
about eleven i was glad to go to bed .
why should they give you pounds a year , when they could have their pick for pounds ?
if he found the box he was to leave it there , to send out a small yacht provisioned for a voyage , which was to lie off rutland island , and to which we were to make our way , and finally to return to his duties .
no , no , jack !
above all things , i desire to settle the matter quietly and discreetly .
i doubt if we shall find him alive .
no , i must go .
with a comical pomposity of manner he bowed solemnly to both of us and strode off upon his way .
he would not go if he could help it .
the assistant had left the front shop for an instant , when he heard a crash , and hurrying in he found a plaster bust of napoleon , which stood with several other works of art upon the counter , lying shivered into fragments .
having once spotted my man , it was easy to get corroboration .
it certainly did that but what are your alternatives ?
how do you know that ?
all he wants is an old dog to help him to do the running down .
and now that you have explained it , i confess that i am as amazed as before .
you stopped , and then walked back to the garden gate ,
you go and see him , my lad ,
let us know a little more before we act .
but for what possible end ?
mcmurdo had been warned that some ordeal lay before him but no one would tell him in what it consisted .
at the further end from the door was the high french window of which we had heard .
then i forgot .
pull yourself together !
holmes took a paper from his pocket and laid a ten pound note upon the table .
we may need an interpreter .
is n't it common enough in these parts ?
try the settee ,
it was a bad day that ever he took a glass in his hand again .
my god !
keep your distance and all is well .
you 're welcome to them you and your public .
it was an unjustifiable experiment even for one 's self , and doubly so for a friend .
on the other hand , he had no means of supporting himself , and his father , who was by all accounts a very hard man , would have thrown him over utterly had he known the truth .
but they were regarded in the regiment as the very model of a middle aged couple .
i offer you a clerkship in my store .
but if we can only trace l .
sherlock holmes glanced sharply across at me with a slight shrug of his shoulders .
it was only a line asking me to join him when he made the sign to me to do so .
great !
no powder on her nose that proved to be the correct solution .
well , then , do you imagine that this other one , henry baker , had anything to do with the matter ?
holmes gave an exclamation of impatience .
i cried .
she 's free to choose for herself .
there are none .
well , well , if it was fastened the steps could have nothing to do with the matter .
in any case you will hear from me again in the course of the next few days .
turn up the gas ?
there are grounds round it , woods on three sides , and on the fourth a field which slopes down to the southampton highroad , which curves past about a hundred yards from the front door .
then you must have overlooked it .
he knew well that i should never willingly invoke the aid of the police against him .
it is safe to say that there was no public case of any difficulty in which he was not consulted during those eight years , and there were hundreds of private cases , some of them of the most intricate and extraordinary character , in which he played a prominent part .
i would dream of sholto at night .
and then ?
but in any case it does not seem to be a nice household for a young lady .
then he struck gold , invested it , and came up by leaps and bounds .
yes , that is it .
so rapidly did he gain the esteem of his new companions , that when they reached the end of their wanderings , it was unanimously agreed that he should be provided with as large and as fertile a tract of land as any of the settlers , with the exception of young himself , and of stangerson , kemball , johnston , and drebber , who were the four principal elders .
yes , it is a statement of a certain legend which runs in the baskerville family .
i tell you that there never was a shadow between us until this accursed affair began .
it was at that moment i found myself a prisoner in your hands .
i should say it was impossible .
i have made inquiries ,
the stout gentleman half rose from his chair and gave a bob of greeting , with a quick little questioning glance from his small fat encircled eyes .
of contemporary literature , philosophy and politics he appeared to know next to nothing .
but i had no time to think of the danger , for another stone sang past me as i hung by my hands from the edge of the ledge .
all i ask is that you should hear and recognize the absolute truth .
yet i was sure that , with his revengeful nature , he would never give it to me of his own free will .
i 've found it !
i did n't know what to do , so i came straight to you .
with my enfeebled health i do not know whether i shall ever be able to complete it , now that my assistant has been taken from me .
here 's a letter that i had from him yesterday .
murmured my companion .
the object of those who invented the system has apparently been to conceal that these characters convey a message , and to give the idea that they are the mere random sketches of children .
well , as you seem to have made the discovery , whatever it may be , and the vicar to have had it second hand , perhaps you had better do the speaking ,
have you an order to see him in prison ?
but , dear me , what 's this ?
and with that he ups and he outs , and all i could say would n't hold him back .
but we hold several threads in our hands , and the odds are that one or other of them guides us to the truth .
he begged my father to let me live with him and he was very kind to me in his way .
the gas was half up , as i had left it , and my unhappy boy , dressed only in his shirt and trousers , was standing beside the light , holding the coronet in his hands .
i have no doubt that i could tell you a great deal more , mr barker but it would come with a better grace from you .
but hardly had the woman rushed from the room when holmes , with swift , silent steps , was over at the other door .
holmes walked slowly , taking keen note of the architecture of the house .
we 'll look after ours .
what new conditions ?
oh , come in if you wish to .
his habits were regular , his conduct inoffensive .
that 's how he heads it .
a hundred yards or so .
i was at holmes 's elbow , and i glanced for an instant at his face .
you must find time for him if you have none for anything else .
he was wrongfully accused of cheating at cards .
upon my quoting thomas carlyle , he inquired in the naivest way who he might be and what he had done .
our client had sat up with staring eyes and every tinge of colour struck from his astonished face .
a mystery is it ?
you can imagine from what i say that my poor sister julia and i had no great pleasure in our lives .
he added , glancing over the document .
he tells me nothing .
ah , yes , of course .
he rose from the sofa and greeted us without difficulty when we entered .
i was determined that they should not escape me again .
we have judged it best that you should come late .
it is intolerable .
nothing further you have to say , mr holmes , before we go ?
i went down to the albert dock and found that she had been taken down the river by the early tide this morning , homeward bound to savannah .
by heaven !
i have a few questions to ask miss cushing ,
how many landsmen are there who would drink rum when they could get these other spirits ?
besides , it 's not in a very prominent place , as you see .
but how do you know that he is anywhere upon the moor ?
i keep a bull pup ,
the constable stared intently .
i did all i could to help him to keep things straight .
they have been pronounced by an expert to be of a rare variety and of considerable value .
he left his hotel last night he has not been heard of .
the city of agra is a great place , swarming with fanatics and fierce devil worshippers of all sorts .
but how in the name of wonder did you come here , and what have you been doing ?
one would think that we were the criminals .
yes , the coolies used to do some squealing towards the end .
you have killed giuseppe gorgiano .
dr james mortimer , the friend and medical attendant of the deceased , has given evidence to the same effect .
he was a man with some amount of self importance and a certain air of command .
one more point .
do you carry the names of all the gun makers in the world in your memory ?
it is a little fancy of my wife 's , and ladies ' fancies , you know , madam , ladies ' fancies must be consulted .
the box was empty !
naturally he had no doubt that cadogan west was guilty .
i have nothing to do to day .
and then again , there is the ' friends of the c .
her brother , however , had joined us and we set off all four together .
the next sign is c .
and here is a circular muddy mark , and here again upon the floor , and here again by the table .
we waited , but he was silent .
be at the third pillar from the left outside the lyceum theatre to night at seven o'clock .
we shall go down it and make the acquaintance of the professor .
surely you are not as sure as you pretend to be of all those particulars which you gave .
there , sure enough , just behind where we had been standing , stuck one of those murderous darts which we knew so well .
come , man , come , only three minutes , or it will n't be legal .
and here he comes , if i am not mistaken , to resolve all our doubts .
we could use the dining room , ames .
why , they are only waiting for her to come to her senses to arrest her .
faces to the south , then , and quick march !
we were ushered into a dim lit drawing room , where an instant later we were joined by a very tall , handsome , light beared man of fifty , the younger brother of the dead scientist .
i am not subject to impressions , but the dull , heavy evening , with the strange business upon which we were engaged , combined to make me nervous and depressed .
it tended down towards the river side , running through belmont place and prince 's street .
the stranger made no bones about terms , agreed at once to every condition , and was apparently fairly flush of money .
he opened his bag as he spoke , and tumbled onto the floor a wedding dress of watered silk , a pair of white satin shoes and a bride 's wreath and veil , all discoloured and soaked in water .
there is no sick englishwoman in the hotel ?
it is to keep people out who have no business there .
go back and never set foot upon the moor again .
it was the toy which he had promised to bring home .
the fog bank lay like white wool against the window .
at such times i have seen his face , even on a cold day , glisten with moisture , as though it were new raised from a basin .
within there was a small corridor , which ended in a very massive iron gate .
it appears that he did indeed spend last night there , and that he has actually allowed some of his baggage to go on to africa , while he returned to be present at this investigation .
it was invisible , buried in the mud .
now look at this .
my friend threw out the information in a very offhand way , but i saw that he cocked his eye at me to see if i had followed his reasoning .
it all worked just as i thought .
that seems final , does it not ?
it is painful to have to say these things , but you leave me no choice .
holmes was not prone to friendship , but he was tolerant of the big scotchman , and smiled at the sight of him .
now , let us get down to business .
i have had advertisements sent to all the newspapers , and one of my men has gone to the american exchange , but he has not returned yet .
that 's just gossip i want proof !
holmes 's response was a curious one .
i 've come over this little matter of colonel barclay 's death .
i expected him to shoot round and pass me before he could stop .
but look here , mister , i do n't care for folk poking about my place without my leave , so the sooner you pay your score and get out of this the better i shall be pleased .
it will end in my being conveyed into the house .
and why did you wish to see me ?
my dear holmes !
the little man started , and the jaunty smoking cap slid to the floor .
you 're welcome always to my news .
the one is clear and firm .
the end is dark to me also , but i have hold of one idea which may lead us far .
well , well , give him that message .
listen to me , sahib ,
no , no it is , it is his very own writing !
i am sorry that he has seen you .
you can do no good by this obstinacy .
but be careful , for it is poisoned .
i carefully examined the writing , and the paper upon which it was written .
the scoundrel had stolen it all , without carrying out one of the conditions on which we had sold him the secret .
this must be the burrow where the stranger lurked .
he reported , after a short examination of the grass bed ,
so far the housekeeper could add nothing on cross examination save lamentations and expressions of amazement .
he was , i understood , of spanish descent and connected in some way with the embassy .
no great damage done , but the fellows are still at large .
that will do ,
by george , there is another of those miserable ponies !
self protection is no murder , anyhow ,
the inspector looked surprised and a little shocked .
good , watson , good !
he continued as we retraced our steps swiftly down the path .
one moment one moment !
as he spoke we came round the curve of the avenue , and saw in the fading light that every blind in the house had been drawn down .
i see the direction in which all this points .
i must see the duke , mr wilder .
we have been expecting you in these parts since dr watson came down .
why should i try to shield him from the consequences of his own wicked acts ?
it would be robbing you of the credit of the case if i was to presume to help you ,
he 's a fine fellow ,
mcginty , who had been watching him narrowly , raised his thick black eyebrows .
my offer was accepted , and i talked it over with sergeant barclay , who was supposed to know the ground better than any other man , and who drew up a route by which i might get through the rebel lines .
oh , then we have three days yet ,
i assented .
she did not scream .
well , i think that you are in the right .
you had heard the shot , and you had at once come down .
there was the ring of truth in what he said , and i knew that if i raised my voice i was a dead man .
what did you think of miss harrison ?
good bye , lestrade .
the hindoo proper has long and thin feet .
the matter is a very private one .
it is very clear to me now that he knew gorgiano to be close upon him , and that , thank god !
i suppose that everyone finds his first independent start in business a dreary experience .
oh , yes .
baynes chuckled .
john horner , , plumber , was brought up upon the charge of having upon the nd inst .
it is i ,
it may prove the simplest matter in the world , but all the same at first glance this is just a little curious , is it not ?
from my position i could look over the case in the direction of the floor .
the first had walked both ways , but the other had run swiftly , and as his tread was marked in places over the depression of the boot , it was obvious that he had passed after the other .
i believe you have hit it .
how in the world did you deduce that ?
she had sent to mackleton for a doctor , but he did not arrive until morning , being absent at another case .
holmes listened to him intently , with no sign of that impatience which the official exponent too often produced .
it took four strong men to get the brothers into the asylum carriage .
they would be helpless in the hands of a desperate fellow like this notting hill criminal if he could once effect an entrance .
i can n't say for certain , because it all depends well , it all depends upon a factor which is completely outside our control .
but you vill find other lodgings , mister .
i sat up in bed and listened intently .
the small change was made , we stepped on board , and the ropes were cast off .
i fancy that i hear his step now upon the stairs .
holmes softly closed the window .
because , my dear watson , i had the strongest possible reason for wishing certain people to think that i was there when i was really elsewhere .
i have great hopes of what mrs laura lyons may do for us when the position of affairs is made clear to her .
she had only been six months at pinner when i met her we fell in love with each other , and we married a few weeks afterwards .
my brother was one of the founders , and i have myself found it a very soothing atmosphere .
i should like to think over the matter a little now .
seems to me the sooner we get london on to this case the better ,
i believe that you are a wizard , mr holmes .
i suppose the professor eats hardly anything ?
you can tell an old master by the sweep of his brush .
a few moor farmers have small holdings , where they rear sheep and cattle .
i 've wasted time enough ,
it rings true , eh ?
there is as much sense in hafiz as in horace , and as much knowledge of the world .
is there a telegram for me ?
this man was far from the place where the latter had disappeared .
what time did you dine ?
a coat and waistcoat were lying on the floor , and from a hook behind the door , with his own braces round his neck , was hanging the managing director of the franco midland hardware company .
that is our point of departure .
so when i saw you throw down your paper and enter upon a train of thought , i was very happy to have the opportunity of reading it off , and eventually of breaking into it , as a proof that i had been in rapport with you .
i am convinced ,
the swing skylights above the saloon table had been a bit open , and they had fired on us through the slit .
i placed my revolver , cocked , upon the top of the wooden case behind which i crouched .
all the long november evening i waited , filled with impatience for his return .
perhaps i had better take a look at the lower windows before i go up .
this i expect very shortly to do .
what have you here , watson ?
he then proceeded down the alley , and it was at the far end of it that his body was discovered .
each had a long account of the affair , and some had leaders upon it in addition .
i would have spoken now had it not been for my dear girl .
his manner was not effusive .
there would be such a ferment , sir , that i do not hesitate to say that within a week of the publication of that letter this country would be involved in a great war .
i assure you that two thousand pounds would be a drain upon her resources , and that the sum you name is utterly beyond her power .
a stone flagged passage , with the kitchens branching away from it , led by a wooden staircase directly to the first floor of the house .
there is the great standing perennial problem to which human reason is as far from an answer as ever .
he made his way to woking by the first train , and having examined his booty and assured himself that it really was of immense value , he had concealed it in what he thought was a very safe place , with the intention of taking it out again in a day or two , and carrying it to the french embassy , or wherever he thought that a long price was to be had .
you would , naturally , wish to have more company , and so you will need changes in your household .
undoubtedly .
well , perhaps , after all , it is of some little use ,
miss morstan , could we secure her rights , would change from a needy governess to the richest heiress in england .
as this is an express , and as the boat runs in connection with it , i should think we have shaken him off very effectively .
as we turned the curve , the whole stretch of road between the hall and the heath was opened up .
he was wrapped in some sort of dark ulster or blanket , which left only his face exposed but that face was enough to give a man a sleepless night .
harpooner ?
one word now as to how i stood myself at that time .
then perhaps you would now like to hear the evidence of some of the people in the house .
i am the last court of appeal .
i always smoke ' ship ' s ' myself ,
then he took down from the rack the old and oily clay pipe , which was to him as a counsellor , and , having lit it , he leaned back in his chair , with the thick blue cloud wreaths spinning up from him , and a look of infinite languor in his face .
then he receives a letter from india which gives him a great fright .
sherlock holmes was a past master in the art of putting a humble witness at his ease , and very soon , in the privacy of godfrey staunton 's abandoned room , he had extracted all that the porter had to tell .
i may say that a good many of these papers have come through me , and i need not add are thoroughly untrustworthy .
can you suggest any fallacy ?
we communicated with him , of course , but he did not even know that his brother officer was in england .
von bork pushed over a telegram .
the ring , man , the ring : that was what he came back for .
his face in repose was not an unpleasing one , though his heavy brows and aggressive chin gave him , as i had lately seen , a terrible expression when moved to anger .
with a short greeting he seated himself and lit the cigar which had been offered to him .
at last , however , there came an overwhelming desire to see the child once more .
i trust your judgment .
there were no shutters on these : only light curtains which drew across .
by the way
there could not have been a greater contrast between brother and sister , for stapleton was neutral tinted , with light hair and gray eyes , while she was darker than any brunette whom i have seen in england slim , elegant , and tall .
the copper beeches , five miles on the far side of winchester .
the man seemed surprised .
we have come now out of mere vagueness to the definite conception of an australian from ballarat with a grey cloak .
and yet the cottage was not deserted , for a low sound came to our ears a kind of drone of misery and despair which was indescribably melancholy .
a desperate attempt at robbery , culminating in the death of one man and the capture of the criminal , occurred this afternoon in the city .
come , hand it over !
you do n't know mcginty and his scowrers .
' are we never to get out of the valley of fear ?
you do n't mean to say that you came after me in spite of all ?
look at this ,
i have a vision of a dark , frantic face , of a woman 's voice , which screamed in french , ' my waiting is not in vain .
what it all means i cannot guess , but there is some secret business going on in this house of gloom which sooner or later we shall get to the bottom of .
it is a princely offer ,
but that cry of pain from the hound had blown all our fears to the winds .
your windows would be visible from there ?
i find that before the terrible event occurred several people had seen a creature upon the moor which corresponds with this baskerville demon , and which could not possibly be any animal known to science .
tention !
collar and shirt bore the grime of a long journey , and the hair bristled unkempt from the well shaped head .
i think that my friend and i can congratulate ourselves upon several most happy results from our little visit to the north .
why should i tell you ?
where is mr cecil barker now ?
well , mister , it is a business proposition .
how was he dressed ?
that should be helpful , watson ,
you have visited japan .
major sholto remains at peace for some years , happy in the possession of his treasure .
the mist had lifted for a moment , and there was the abyss before him .
a camp bed , a small wooden shelf full of books , mostly of a technical character , an armchair beside the bed , a plain wooden chair against the wall , a round table , and a large iron safe were the principal things which met the eye .
she lives with mrs cecil forrester , in lower camberwell : so it is not very far .
the credit of the execution is due to monsieur oscar meunier , of grenoble , who spent some days in doing the moulding .
yes , but it may be pushed to excess .
he cried .
and you saw no more of him ?
no , sir , no though i am happy to have had the opportunity of doing that as well .
holmes tore it open , and then with a bitter curse hurled it into the grate .
as i focus my mind upon it , it seems rather less impenetrable .
the good steiler assured me in a postscript that he would himself look upon my compliance as a very great favor , since the lady absolutely refused to see a swiss physician , and he could not but feel that he was incurring a great responsibility .
now , my dear fellow , we can n't help matters by making ourselves nervous about them , so let me implore you to go to bed and so be fresh for whatever may await us to morrow .
when mrs turner has brought in the tray i will make it clear to you .
you know that he was once refused by mcfarlane 's mother ?
a medical student , i suppose ?
it was the bisulphate of baryta .
you are just the man i want ,
this chair i will place opposite yours , so that we may be the same distance from the poison and face to face .
the question now is , what shall we do with this poor wretch 's body ?
could you swear that this was a man 's face which you saw at the window ?
for the present , mrs warren , good bye .
you will n't take the key from me by force , watson , i 've got you , my friend .
i freely confess that i was of the opinion that stangerson was concerned in the death of drebber .
a young man , very pale and worn , was lying upon a sofa near the open window , through which came the rich scent of the garden and the balmy summer air .
there was a telegraph office at a short distance from the hotel .
my , it might be a description of watson !
you must remember that they knew , and only they knew , that i was still alive .
if he wants anything else he prints it on a slip of paper and leaves it .
cause i 'd read in the papers that they were n't too particular in those parts .
it is nothing against the fort ,
sherlock holmes laughed .
that was what i wished you to think .
stop it !
this was the telegram which you appear in some inexplicable way to have seen .
it was only when we were on the lawn outside that his interest was strongly excited .
there 's one man in this town that wants trimming up , and it 's for you to see that he gets it .
i believe i have the honour of addressing miss mary holder .
cushing , cross street , croydon .
he had always a taste for low company .
is it not possible that his wife is a lunatic , that he desires to keep the matter quiet for fear she should be taken to an asylum , and that he humours her fancies in every way in order to prevent an outbreak ?
what were the technical papers ?
but the case certainly grows in interest .
bronzing bracken and mottled bramble gleamed in the light of the sinking sun .
it is true that the circumstance did not admit of any striking illustration of those powers for which my friend was famous , but there were some points about the case which made it stand out in those long records of crime from which i gather the material for these little narratives .
lestrade looked sadly at my companion .
then that will simplify matters .
shall i sign here ?
you can refuse to answer but you must be aware that your refusal is in itself an answer , for you would not refuse if you had not something to conceal .
as to the photograph , your client may rest in peace .
possibly he tried to leave the carriage , fell out on the line , and so met his end .
mcmurdo 's criminal soul seemed to have already absorbed the spirit of the vile association of which he was now a member .
as the major expressed it , the smile had often been struck from his mouth , as if by some invisible hand , when he has been joining the gayeties and chaff of the mess table .
she implored me to come to bed .
it is unquestionably the mark of his thumb .
we ascended to his study , and he laid the debris before me .
we talked the matter over again , and at last we came to an arrangement .
i am sure that you are right , mr holmes ,
well , when dr barnicot came down this morning he was astonished to find that his house had been burgled during the night , but that nothing had been taken save the plaster head from the hall .
each is now in a position to watch the other and to bring the experiment to an end should the symptoms seem alarming .
she listened with parted lips and shining eyes to my recital of our adventures .
after all , important fresh evidence is a two edged thing , and may possibly cut in a very different direction to that which lestrade imagines .
yes he once came down to visit sir charles .
the corridors at hurlstone have their walls largely decorated with trophies of old weapons .
what a time it seemed !
i 'll do that .
there is nothing in which deduction is so necessary as in religion ,
mr holmes , the envelope is a long , thin one of pale blue colour .
even my dread of losing a client could not restrain me from showing my impatience .
the craze for drink had seized him again , and he ordered me to pull up outside a gin palace .
i confess that it is not the situation which i should like to see a sister of mine apply for .
a large sum of money is at stake , for the scholarship is a very valuable one , and an unscrupulous man might very well run a risk in order to gain an advantage over his fellows .
how on earth do you know that ?
this we have now been doing for some time , and in order to help us in our operations we erected a hydraulic press .
let us see if there is justice upon the earth , or if we are ruled by chance .
i beg you , sir , to say nothing to the police .
working , the same as you but a poorer job .
certainly .
have just had most incredible and grotesque experience .
any night , for example , our neighbours the stapletons might be attacked by him , and it may have been the thought of this which made sir henry so keen upon the adventure .
for myself i believe that the truth was exactly the opposite .
the man in the dressing gown turned upon us with a most melancholy face .
whom would you recommend , then ?
sherlock holmes took his bottle from the corner of the mantel piece and his hypodermic syringe from its neat morocco case .
as it was , he suffered a long term of imprisonment and afterwards returned to england a morose and disappointed man .
the date of the watch is nearly fifty years back , and the initials are as old as the watch : so it was made for the last generation .
the major had retired some little time before , and lived at upper norwood .
surely it is easily decided , hope ,
but we have a long way still to go .
the place is disorganized .
if there was nothing else left to him , he could at least devote his life to revenge .
now i see it !
it is inevitable destruction .
brenda tregennis ,
this barricaded door corresponded clearly with the shuttered window outside , and yet i could see by the glimmer from beneath it that the room was not in darkness .
they were buckshot cartridges , and , as sergeant wilson pointed out , the triggers were wired together so that , if you pulled on the hinder one , both barrels were discharged .
i will do my best .
i cried .
it was impossible to say .
they were tall , fierce looking chaps , mahomet singh and abdullah khan by name , both old fighting men who had borne arms against us at chilian wallah .
rank reeds and lush , slimy water plants sent an odour of decay and a heavy miasmatic vapour onto our faces , while a false step plunged us more than once thigh deep into the dark , quivering mire , which shook for yards in soft undulations around our feet .
it 's all these goings on , sir ,
then you returned , sir , and my brother thought he would be safer on the moor than anywhere else until the hue and cry was over , so he lay in hiding there .
about the second week of it our water gave out , and it was a question whether we could communicate with general neill 's column , which was moving up country .
and yet when they arrived they found that the candle was out and that the lamp had been lighted .
it was he who invented that writing , which would pass as a child 's scrawl unless you just happened to have the key to it .
a subtle change had come over him .
it is evidently trying to your nerves .
we emerged at last into a small road , lined with old , gloomy houses , which led us into manchester street , and so to blandford street .
i could draw nothing further from him , and he walked , lost in thought , as far as the baskerville gates .
from that day i lived only for vengeance .
the man who wrote it was presumably well to do ,
what office ?
what about the convict on the moor ?
his iron constitution enabled him to work morning and evening at improving and tilling his lands .
holmes plunged his eager hand into it and drew it out with a bitter snarl of anger and disappointment .
i had a hard enough fight to get this berth , and i am very glad to have it .
there is a fellow cutting peat up yonder .
the man gave a violent start .
have i not said enough to show the men and their methods ?
i am not quite so bulky , but if he had remained i might have shown him that my grip was not much more feeble than his own .
are you sure that everything is fastened ?
no , i had a feeling something was there .
we will leave it all to her decision .
the next moment he had staggered back to his bed , exhausted and panting after his one tremendous outflame of energy .
yes and he seemed to think , with me , that something had happened , and that i should hear of hosmer again .
twenty nine days are given you for amendment , and then
the will was duly finished , signed , and witnessed by my clerk .
there was a quarrel between you .
with some curiosity as to what could have sent a brother medico to us at such an hour , i followed holmes into our sanctum .
come in !
we have seen both the retailers and also the wholesale manufacturers .
lestrade .
i took the liberty , therefore , of making an appointment in such a way that my man williams might be able to see you first .
all this jefferson hope was able to tell him , and in a style which interested lucy as well as her father .
i guessed that what puzzled the new yorkers would puzzle the londoners , so i dipped my finger in my own blood and printed it on a convenient place on the wall .
he would have cut his right hand off before he would sell a state secret confided to his keeping .
spare me !
all that i am saying has a very direct and vital bearing upon what you have called the birlstone mystery .
it only remains for me now to tell you what has occurred to bring me here to night .
we may take it that the letter came out of this strange household and was an invitation to garcia to carry out some attempt which had already been planned .
yes , brenda tregennis ,
what can he hope to find there ?
at the time of which i speak , holmes had been back for some months , and i at his request had sold my practice and returned to share the old quarters in baker street .
you can forget it or remember it , just as you like .
drebber , cleveland , ohio , u .
perhaps i can help you to see that and one or two other things as well ,
your hands , my dear sir your right hand is quite a size larger than your left .
you can take your beard off , bob ,
you slipped up there , mr holmes , clever as you are for if you had chanced to take off that plaster you would have found no cut underneath it .
if her master had a visitor he had himself admitted him .
you 'll have to go out .
that 's absolutely all we have at present , mr holmes .
with your permission , mr holder , i shall now continue my investigations outside .
i am on the trail of my life now , mr holmes ,
you could not have made any slip in coming ?
your theory holds together .
mcginty rose with gloom upon his brow .
lord , sir , what a face it was !
clair by name , who appeared to have plenty of money .
it was a nice question , for the cape de verdes were about five hundred miles to the north of us , and the african coast about seven hundred to the east .
once a bullet whistled through stangerson 's window and flattened itself upon the wall within a foot of him .
it is your commonplace , featureless crimes which are really puzzling , just as a commonplace face is the most difficult to identify .
all the rest you will see later for yourself .
you may advise me how to walk amid the dangers which encompass me .
i 've got a plan , though , if you 'll only take my advice .
let us all go round and have a look at the horse together .
married , you say ?
after his flight he did not dare to approach the hut again for some time , but at last he forced himself to do so in order to obtain the information which he needed .
you see , if i am to be squire down there i must dress the part , and it may be that i have got a little careless in my ways out west .
i added ,
it do n't much matter to you why i hated these men ,
i think myself that it is a page from some private diary .
we looked back on it now , the slanting rays of a low sun turning the streams to threads of gold and glowing on the red earth new turned by the plough and the broad tangle of the woodlands .
it is not true .
it 's later than i thought .
where is he ?
it were better for you , john ferrier ,
and then again , sir , we were both of us very fond of sir charles , as we well might be considering all that he has done for us .
the lodge will owe you a debt for this .
holmes took each face of the house in turn , and examined it with great interest .
we heard a loud knock , a deep voice below , and heavy steps ascending the stair .
we have been in this room two hours , and mrs hudson has made some change in that figure eight times , or once in every quarter of an hour .
she gave a violent start and a kind of gasping cry when i spoke , and that cry and start troubled me more than all the rest , for there was something indescribably guilty about them .
obviously by advertisement through a newspaper .
i do n't care who you are .
it was evident to me that our unfortunate client was lost .
what do you deduce from that ?
the more featureless and commonplace a crime is , the more difficult it is to bring it home .
he is silent and distrait .
i cannot say that i do unless it were that he wished to be able to deny his signature if an action for breach of promise were instituted .
no , i cannot say .
i saw that he was too hardened for any words of mine to influence him .
they must have lost my track completely after their bludgeon man was arrested .
most of the rooms were unfurnished , but none the less holmes inspected them all minutely .
but in the interval the rogue had learned to imitate you , and his position was therefore secure , as i presume that nobody in the office had ever set eyes upon you .
window is snibbed on the inner side .
i assure you , sir
for all the preposterous hat and the vacuous face , there was something noble in the simple faith of our visitor which compelled our respect .
our inspection was not wasted .
this young man has left prints upon the stair carpet which made it quite superfluous for me to ask to see those which he had made in the room .
sorry to keep you waiting , mr holmes , i can see that you are bored to death with the whole affair .
that is the cause of all the mischief , the wicked hugo , who started the hound of the baskervilles .
i shall look into the matter between this and then .
we know who the author of the revolting business is , although one of the victims still escapes us .
that is the advantage of being unofficial .
well , then , i trust that you have no objection to tobacco smoke , to the mild balsamic odor of the eastern tobacco .
i hoped that you were going to see me through this business .
a man cannot be condemned for a murder at which he was not present , and which he loathes and abhors as much as you do .
let us apply common sense to the matter .
how did he die ?
holmes , however , like all great artists , lived for his art 's sake , and , save in the case of the duke of holdernesse , i have seldom known him claim any large reward for his inestimable services .
was it your custom always to lock yourselves in at night ?
i really have made no inquiries on the subject .
thank you !
i then worked the lawn very carefully for signs and traces , but this drought has made everything as hard as iron .
as an example i may quote one of my own worst blunders i can afford to talk of my blunders , for you know my work well enough to be aware of my successes .
your servant seems to have quite recovered .
there can be no possible doubt as to their intentions .
cried holmes , as i ran panting to his side .
in he walked , a middle sized , dark haired , dark eyed , black bearded man , with a touch of the sheeny about his nose .
that 's the charge , lestrade .
for that reason , and for no other , he shielded me .
do you not deduce something from that ?
holmes shrugged his shoulders with a glance of comic resignation towards the colonel , and the talk drifted away into less dangerous channels .
but there goes the bell , and as i stand to win a little on this next race , i shall defer a lengthy explanation until a more fitting time .
there have been decorators and furnishers up from plymouth , and it is evident that our friend has large ideas and means to spare no pains or expense to restore the grandeur of his family .
he had lost himself in his interest .
his head had been shattered by a savage blow from some heavy weapon , and he was wounded on the thigh , where there was a long , clean cut , inflicted evidently by some very sharp instrument .
that i am !
well , that is pretty clear also .
that is not always so easy .
no , sir
how can you say that , sir ?
all has turned out splendidly .
tiles were loosened the whole way along , and in his hurry he had dropped this .
she laughed and clapped her hands .
ah , that 's a pity , bannister .
yet he had taken the obvious risk of discovery in declaring that it was not so .
where , then , could the driver be , unless he were inside the house ?
one tiny speck of blood showed where the puncture had been .
if she were ill used , then at any risks i was determined to go back to her assistance .
i was ascertaining whether the cellar stretched out in front or behind .
i do n't miss much , mr holmes .
mr holmes ,
our friends are wise , for it is certainly a very fine morning for a walk .
it is interesting , chemically , no doubt ,
you will not see him .
no , sir , we hai n't ,
yes , i see .
if you had told us of your own free will it would have been a different thing ,
i need not introduce you to mr culverton smith , since i understand that you met somewhat earlier in the evening .
i made up my mind that the fellow was in hiding in the house .
here is page , column two , a substantial block of print dealing , i perceive , with the trade and resources of british india .
we played cards for her on the voyage .
inspector macdonald had been staring at the newcomer with the greatest amazement .
but a terrible change came over our stepfather about this time .
the dictator , his two children , his secretary , and his wealth had all escaped them .
it was several miles off , but i could distinctly see a small dark dot against the dull green and gray .
he is poorly dressed , and yet does not appear to be a labourer .
thus , although i spoke of mr sholto 's death , i said nothing of the exact manner and method of it .
here 's the agreement on the side table .
baskerville hall ,
we both started in our chairs .
he cried .
he glanced at them both in fury .
when i went into this case with you i bargained , as you will no doubt remember , that i should not present you with half proved theories , but that i should retain and work out my own ideas until i had satisfied myself that they were correct .
every day we hoped that he was gone , but as long as he was there we could not desert him .
the man never uttered moan nor moved muscle , but lay were he had fallen .
great scott !
very likely it just so happened , and oldacre had himself no notion of the use he would put it to .
on the contrary , from his point of view , any sudden change would be likely to draw attention to himself .
it is rough cardboard .
you are to ask the questions , mr melas , and he will write the answers .
we do n't want any loiterers about here ,
it was the housekeeper , mrs lexington , who drew the night constable 's attention to it .
all these details i observed afterwards .
i did not even know that it was a knife which i held in my hand , for in my despair i snatched anything from the table and struck at him to make him let me go .
then , how do you know ?
with a resigned air and a somewhat weary smile , holmes begged the beautiful intruder to take a seat , and to inform us what it was that was troubling her .
i got it from over exposure and under feeding among the salt lake mountains .
and thence came the john douglas who for a second time married a worthy mate , and lived for five years as a sussex county gentleman , a life which ended with the strange happenings of which we have heard .
exactly .
at first he thought that he was the police , but soon he found that he had some lay of his own .
his window was open , and there is a stout ivy plant leading to the ground .
he proposes to call at about quarter past six to morrow evening , if dr trevelyan will make it convenient to be at home .
their most trivial action may mean volumes , or their most extraordinary conduct may depend upon a hairpin or a curling tongs .
there was such a ring of conviction in his voice that i glanced up in surprise .
astonishment at the unexpected sight of you might cause him to throw up his hands ?
he was a terrible and wonderful man .
, lauriston gardens .
you have been at your club all day , i perceive .
those are the public facts , mr holmes , in connection with the death of sir charles baskerville .
and , first , one or two questions , mr wilson .
however , we may congratulate ourselves upon a curious and , in some respects , a unique case .
she seemed to be in a hurry .
let us be frank with this gentleman .
if they had followed him the first day i argued that they would follow him also the second .
he put his hand over part of the map .
i have been expecting you to do something original .
some great misfortune will befall you if you do .
but that morning , as it chanced , there was only this one letter , so i took the more notice of it .
she darted to the bell .
he wore an open jacket , with a splotch of tar on the sleeve , a red and black check shirt , dungaree trousers , and heavy boots badly worn .
what is it , then ?
it must be something important which has brought you out in such a gale .
there 's the whole case , and now i want your advice as to what i ought to do .
you have heard of me , i see .
you 're mad !
should i bring it to a successful conclusion , it will certainly represent the crowning glory of my career .
if our supposition is correct , then the horse must have crossed that , and there is the point where we should look for his tracks .
i cried ,
but when i came to think the matter over my conscience reproached me bitterly for having on any pretext allowed him to go out of my sight .
but what i want to know , mister , is how the coppers know these things ?
i stood firm .
you do n't keep a dog ?
yes , sir , one telegram .
ryder threw himself down suddenly upon the rug and clutched at my companion 's knees .
only ourselves .
he was a son of that rodger baskerville , the younger brother of sir charles , who fled with a sinister reputation to south america , where he was said to have died unmarried .
to all the world he was the man of violence , half animal and half demon but to her he always remained the little wilful boy of her own girlhood , the child who had clung to her hand .
john straker , who is a married man , lived in a small villa about two hundred yards from the stables .
the young lady resumed her seat with an air of displeasure .
i fancy that among your extensive archives , watson , you may find some which were nearly as obscure .
look at mr stapleton 's house , for example , with no one but himself to defend it .
neither dog nor man liked the look of my stick , however , and the matter fell through .
you 're not bodymaster for life , jack mcginty , and by god !
examine him carefully .
we had hardly time to take our place behind a pile of luggage when it passed with a rattle and a roar , beating a blast of hot air into our faces .
is purely nominal .
are you strong enough to stand ?
i really do n't think he knew much about it , mr holmes .
what then ?
you are a little trying at times .
that you may get away , or perhaps that you may conceal what you have stolen ,
the stain on the windowsill conveys the same idea .
i had hardly got outside the hut when i heard someone coming , and i hid among the bushes .
i felt that years of the conventionalities of life could not teach me to know her sweet , brave nature as had this one day of strange experiences .
here 's your advance of a hundred pounds , and here is the letter .
mr douglas seldom went to london or left the village but on the day before the crime he had been shopping at tunbridge wells .
let me see ,
now i come to the critical part of my argument .
i cannot tell .
when my father took over the horsham property , he , at my request , made a careful examination of the attic , which had been always locked up .
then a long , agonized , writhing neck shot upward and a dreadful cry echoed over the moor .
besides , what is there to be afraid of ?
i shall get level with you , altamont ,
the remaining room appeared more promising , and my companion settled down to a systematic examination .
come , watson , we must really take a risk and try to investigate this a little more closely .
it would be done so quickly and so naturally , that i daresay the young man himself has no recollection of it .
i kissed her and went up to my bedroom again , where i was soon asleep .
i can understand .
a minute later we were both in the area .
well , some hundreds of times .
jean baptiste greuze ,
the blind was not down in your room , and i could see miss harrison sitting there reading by the table .
see how beautifully the spring works .
i remember nothing until i found myself lying on my bed trembling all over .
i know nothing about it .
i begin to think , watson ,
what a queer , scrambling way of expressing his meaning !
any shot directed at this person might hit the sash .
i will read it to you , and in return you must turn over these papers and let me have whatever bears upon the matter .
von bork sighed as one who had suffered much .
it 's heads i win and tails you lose .
i could not stay away longer .
this kept him out most of the day , and he had not found occasion yet to report himself to the head of the lodge of the eminent order of freemen .
they had sworn an oath on all that they thought holy to have his blood as a vengeance for their comrades .
well , go on .
once or twice we drifted into talk , and i can remember that more than once he expressed a keen interest in my methods of observation and inference .
they evidently failed to appreciate the fact , which i had begun to realize , that sherlock holmes ' smallest actions were all directed towards some definite and practical end .
one cannot always have the success for which one hopes .
i can see only two things for certain at present a great brain in london , and a dead man in sussex .
his masterful eyes travelled quickly with a questioning glance from face to face .
was the window open ?
if he had seen it , it would have gone hard with me .
i cannot allow the examination to be held if one of the papers has been tampered with .
then we shall walk over together .
it would be as well , perhaps , for you to cross it .
what sort of a man was he ?
the doctor had departed .
i suppose he thought we had come to the hotel that he had mentioned , for he got out without another word , and followed me down the garden .
you can imagine my exultation , watson , when within two inches of my peg i saw a conical depression in the ground .
what 's come over you , jack ?
one should always look for a possible alternative , and provide against it .
these are what one may call the private guests .
they all tend to deepen the impression upon my mind that the cunninghams , father and son , had written this letter .
he went after him that night and saw him pass through the doorway .
what is it here ?
exactly , mr holmes .
you 've got to put your hands up like this .
only in this way can i make the reader appreciate the people concerned and the strange setting in which their fate was cast .
as armitage it was that i entered a london banking house , and as armitage i was convicted of breaking my country 's laws , and was sentenced to transportation .
it 's all right .
see that the boy has this to night , and you shall have the prettiest frock that money can buy .
do you see that black tor over yonder ?
you have the letter .
think better of it , dear !
exactly , my dear watson !
and yet , my dear watson , there is so very close a connection that the one is extracted out of the other .
my own was in the same wing as baskerville 's and almost next door to it .
he had been dead some days , but there was no wound or bruise upon his person to show how he had met his dreadful end .
i knew those gloves well , and i understood their message .
their names are biddle , hayward , and moffat .
and what is the result ?
i then passed through persia , looked in at mecca , and paid a short but interesting visit to the khalifa at khartoum the results of which i have communicated to the foreign office .
what about the dough ?
i desired no more .
at last , one evening i was driving up and down torquay terrace , as the street was called in which they boarded , when i saw a cab drive up to their door .
it 's all your own .
the coroner : did your father make any statement to you before he died ?
the man might have effected his entrance there , left traces as he passed through the bedroom , and finally , finding the door open , have escaped that way .
as he spoke he unwrapped the grey shawl and extricated a pretty little girl of about five years of age , whose dainty shoes and smart pink frock with its little linen apron all bespoke a mother 's care .
and yet it opened in the blackest disappointment .
i was a happy and successful man , mr holmes , and on the eve of being married , when a sudden and dreadful misfortune wrecked all my prospects in life .
i thought that he was delirious .
leave it at that , mcmurdo .
this is certainly a little unusual .
thank you , i think i have seen all that i wished .
holmes turned on his heel with a gesture of disgust .
i found her more interesting than her little problem , which , by the way , is rather a trite one .
this , miss morstan , is pondicherry lodge ,
ah , that is the question .
what can i do for you , mr holmes ?
then i followed frankland into his dining room .
hullo !
cried sherlock holmes with a laugh .
that is why i hastened here when the police inspector suggested that i should secure your co operation .
not only will i clear him , mr jones , but i will make you a free present of the name and description of one of the two people who were in this room last night .
i want to put you in touch with the situation , as i may need your help to night .
it was death to the man that lost his grip .
is there not one alternative ,
so far i had not dared to look out , but now i gently parted the division of the curtains in front of me and peeped through .
cried mr pinner with a ghastly smile .
you certainly have the credit of being the first of us to find this out , and , as you say , it bears every mark of having been written by the other participant in last night 's mystery .
we found our client still under the charge of his devoted nurse , but looking considerably better than before .
mrs douglas gave a cry of astonishment at holmes 's words .
some account of them and of their appearance was in the papers , and would naturally occur to anyone who wished to invent a story in which imaginary robbers should play a part .
of course you saw the j h monogram on my locket ,
i leave a photograph which he might care to possess and i remain , dear mr sherlock holmes ,
it may surprise you to know that the man upon earth who is best versed in this disease is not a medical man , but a planter .
you say that your fare told you that he was a detective ?
well , it must be the creature who lives in the only comfortable room in the place , and has her photograph above his fireplace .
i see , watson .
you certainly must not go alone .
but here she comes in person to resolve our doubts .
what then ?
there was no sign of any violence , and the water was but two feet deep , so that the jury , having regard to his known eccentricity , brought in a verdict of ' suicide .
except these , the plover and the curlew are the only inhabitants until you come to the chesterfield high road .
dear me , watson , this is really very singular .
and the shadow of the elm must mean the farther end of the shadow , otherwise the trunk would have been chosen as the guide .
for two days rachel howells had been so ill , sometimes delirious , sometimes hysterical , that a nurse had been employed to sit up with her at night .
start her up , watson , for it 's time that we were on our way .
next day i was inclined to think that i had made a mistake , and by the day after i was sure of it .
perhaps you would not care for him as a constant companion .
it was a long fight between my pride and the money , but the dollars won at last , and i threw up reporting and sat day after day in the corner which i had first chosen , inspiring pity by my ghastly face and filling my pockets with coppers .
that is very handsome ,
you can n't deny that neligan was present that night , mr holmes .
but what could it indicate ?
oh , for god 's sake !
helena .
i have seldom heard him mention her under any other name .
there are several quiet little villages up there .
a footman opened the door , and a small , stout man in a shaggy astrakhan overcoat descended .
gregson rubbed his hands in a self satisfied way .
but what use will you make of it ?
so would you , if a flock of strangers came in on you when you were preparing for an examination next day , and every moment was of value .
they send him messages what to do .
well , you 're not a spirit anyhow ,
we had a small scene this morning after breakfast .
he would eat raw meat and dance his war dance : so we always had a hatful of pennies after a day 's work .
perhaps you can let us have a few details .
once or twice it seemed to me that i had seen the same figure before , and i especially noticed two men who appeared to be sheltering themselves from the wind in the doorway of a house some distance up the street .
you find yourself insensibly twisting them round to fit your theories .
colonel lysander stark sprang out , and , as i followed after him , pulled me swiftly into a porch which gaped in front of us .
so i reasoned with myself in the morning , and i tell you the direction of my suspicions , however much the result may have shown that they were unfounded .
but you were speaking of your papers .
it was , then , in a year , and even in a decade , that shall be nameless , that upon one tuesday morning in autumn we found two visitors of european fame within the walls of our humble room in baker street .
not for anything in the drawers .
second window left .
it struck me that he was looking even paler and thinner than usual .
what on earth is this ?
in the character of a registration agent i had a most interesting gossip with his landlady .
in the corner , stooping over a desk , there sat what appeared to be a little girl .
to my surprise , the young lady held up her gloved hand to detain me .
this is serious , watson ,
can you ask , my dear watson ?
sit down , man , and let me have my rest !
the naval treaty
it seems to me that you knows a deal more than you should .
so much is fairly clear .
there was a general murmur of assent .
i dismissed that .
murder by a madman , and the contents of the paper showed that mr horace harker had got his account into print after all .
the unusual salary , the curious conditions , the light duties , all pointed to something abnormal , though whether a fad or a plot , or whether the man were a philanthropist or a villain , it was quite beyond my powers to determine .
my gross takings amount to pounds s .
who is he ?
i put on my dressing gown and then came down .
she was a placid faced woman , with large , gentle eyes , and grizzled hair curving down over her temples on each side .
now let me endeavour to show you the different steps in my reasoning .
what cable ?
arthur charpentier , sub lieutenant in her majesty 's navy ,
you see that even a villain and murderer can inspire such affection that his brother turns to suicide when he learns that his neck is forfeited .
he groaned .
thence he could see the drawbridge go up , and he knew that his only escape was through the moat .
we have had no details yet ,
then , again , why such laconic messages ?
no , no , jack , for god 's sake !
the police had brought a cab with them , and in this i escorted miss morstan back to her home .
i am a worcestershire man myself , born near pershore .
mary saw the devil 's light in my eyes , and she ran forward with her hands on my sleeve .
i wish to heavens that you would , mr holmes .
, and why does he pursue this unhappy family ?
get down , watson !
one of these he placed in his hall in the house at kennington road , and the other on the mantelpiece of the surgery at lower brixton .
her eyes shone with the joy of living , and her face still quivered with amusement at some remark of her companion .
i found my father expiring upon the ground , with his head terribly injured .
on the whole , it was probably some creature of the weasel and stoat tribe and yet it is larger than any of these that i have seen .
should i appeal to the law ?
he was a tall man , full bearded , with spectacles , one glass of which had been knocked out .
maybe i learned that from you .
give him a dash of brandy .
i have noted of some half dozen cases of the kind the adventure of the musgrave ritual and that which i am about to recount are the two which present the strongest features of interest .
he cried ,
i was just looking for the offices when you came .
what amuses me is to think of lestrade , who had started off upon the wrong scent .
we left her standing upon the thin peninsula of firm , peaty soil which tapered out into the widespread bog .
and the man who wrote the note is a german .
a greater mystery to me is why this hound , presuming that all our conjectures are correct
i mean that i have earned the reward .
not a word to the cousin not a word , i beg of you .
i confess that i was myself surprised both at his hilarious manner and at his rather wild observation .
he is not a married man .
has that constable in the passage been in charge of the place all the time ?
i would have thought no more of knifing him than of smoking this cigar .
we have , of course , wired to the belfast post office , but a large number of parcels were handed in upon that day , and they have no means of identifying this particular one , or of remembering the sender .
but if you want to get to the house , you 'll find it shorter to get over this stile , and so by the foot path over the fields .
or had escaped .
no , it 's no use arguing .
this blessington or sutton , who was the worst of the gang , turned informer .
and then what had happened ?
that i begin to believe that i am the unconscious centre of some monstrous conspiracy , and that my life is aimed at as well as my honor ?
holmes raised his eyebrows in surprise .
i shall make no secret of the business .
i had something else to think of .
there was a murmur of astonishment through the hall .
she turned deadly white , read the letter , and threw it into the fire .
where there is no money there is no pay .
a little over precipitance may ruin all .
was it his profile that was seen on the blind two nights before ?
all the baggage we took off with him was one tin box .
we called at the door , when the maid , at holmes ' request , showed us the boots which her master wore at the time of his death , and also a pair of the son 's , though not the pair which he had then had .
no , sir , certainly not .
what does he mean by allowing his retreat to be cut off like that ?
where is it , then ?
i can only say that the first word that ever came to us of the business was from one of his lieutenants .
i would have gone straight up and told him so , only i thought it was but fair to you to take your opinion first .
what are we to do , then ?
i presume that the reason he gave was that you would receive help from sir charles for the legal expenses connected with your divorce ?
sir henry had numerous papers to examine after breakfast , so that the time was propitious for my excursion .
friends , ' came the answer .
my god !
i am inclined to think
i 'm a freeman myself .
now , mr holmes , with your permission , i will show you round the house .
we have never found it necessary .
on saturday i come up to town , and i do not intend to return .
for all they cared it might have been me , instead of my effigy , which these rascals burned at the stake .
well , now , let us turn to this unfortunate german master .
but to my astonishment , when i came to look round me , neither house nor garden were to be seen .
ha , it must have been written by that tall englishman who came in after you had gone .
of course , what i give you is what i learned in business so it goes no further .
what about him ?
months afterwards a curious newspaper cutting reached us from buda pesth .
i am sure the scruple does you honour , mr sandeford .
they were on his tray this morning .
i can never bring you to realise the importance of sleeves , the suggestiveness of thumb nails , or the great issues that may hang from a boot lace .
and now let us consider another point .
belated wanderers upon the mountains spoke of gangs of armed men , masked , stealthy , and noiseless , who flitted by them in the darkness .
you shall share our knowledge before you leave this room , sir henry .
well , really , i came to seek a theory , not to propound one .
it 's a queer throne for such a queen but it 's the best your poor lover can find .
i looked back at the platform when we had left it far behind and saw the tall , austere figure of holmes standing motionless and gazing after us .
why should she hand it over to anyone else ?
and how far from the edge of the wood ?
now , sir , ' she continued , ' i had no intention of telling you all this , but since my poor daughter has disclosed it i have no alternative .
indeed , i have nothing more to tell .
i heard them ask for the liverpool train , and the guard answer that one had just gone and there would not be another for some hours .
but not actually raining ?
i have seen too much not to know that the impression of a woman may be more valuable than the conclusion of an analytical reasoner .
surely it is here to the north that our quest must lie .
when the cloth was cleared , holmes glanced at his watch , and filled up three glasses with port .
in that impassive colourless man , with his straw hat and his butterfly net , i seemed to see something terrible a creature of infinite patience and craft , with a smiling face and a murderous heart .
she had always been so trusting and so innocent , but now she became queer and suspicious , wanting to know where i had been and what i had been doing , and whom my letters were from , and what i had in my pockets , and a thousand such follies .
over the oak .
there were two guides given us to start with , an oak and an elm .
oh , anywhere .
it is that he should strike before we are ready to do so .
he shouted to a frightened groom , who had appeared at the edge of the glade .
did n't i say to you that it would end in murder ?
well , then , everyone is agreed that after the alarm was given only a minute at the most had passed before the whole household not mr cecil barker alone , though he claims to have been the first , but ames and all of them were on the spot .
the landlady informed me that he had left the house shortly after eight o'clock in the morning .
he rang the bell as he spoke , and jefferson hope was led off by a couple of warders , while my friend and i made our way out of the station and took a cab back to baker street .
oh , my god !
mcginty took his eternal half chewed , half smoked cigar from the corner of his mouth , and proceeded to draw a rough diagram on a page torn from his notebook .
and the flap has been gummed , if i am not very much in error , by a person who had been chewing tobacco .
you leave him in this den for three days .
you must have read in the account of the inquest about the man 's cabin , mr holmes , but perhaps your friend here has not heard of it .
when i think of mortimer tregennis , with the foxy face and the small shrewd , beady eyes behind the spectacles , he is not a man whom i should judge to be of a particularly forgiving disposition .
as to you , watson , you are joining us with your old service , as i understand , so london will n't be out of your way .
i had the advantage of learning which was which last night .
i had not even time to put on my hat .
he must guard himself , for he may find that there is someone more cunning than himself upon his track .
i 'll open the door for him , show him into the parlour beside the door , and leave him there while i get the papers .
think again .
he was on the moor path about a quarter of a mile off , and a lady was by his side who could only be miss stapleton .
what do you mean ?
it was addressed to him , and ran thus :
how long did she speak to this alice ?
now i have come round to you , and on my way i was attacked by a rough with a bludgeon .
i told sir henry how the matter stood , and he at once , in his downright fashion , had barrymore up and asked him whether he had received the telegram himself .
i wish to heaven that i had rushed to the window !
from this central block rose the twin towers , ancient , crenelated , and pierced with many loopholes .
his brown face looked so savage , and his gaunt hands so threatening , that his visitors sprang to their feet and beat a hurried retreat .
here are three written descriptions by trustworthy witnesses of mr and mrs vandeleur , who at that time kept st .
holmes shrugged his shoulders .
i should like a few more facts before i get so far as a theory , mr mac ,
a man can n't expect always to have it his own way , can he , dr watson ?
we went out to meet the rebels at shahgunge early in july , and we beat them back for a time , but our powder gave out , and we had to fall back upon the city .
once on the road we are only two miles from the ravine where the horses are waiting .
the french have a very neat way of putting these things .
it is only mislaid .
the coroner : that is for the court to decide .
his increasing fame had brought with it an immense practice , and i should be guilty of an indiscretion if i were even to hint at the identity of some of the illustrious clients who crossed our humble threshold in baker street .
i had already noticed the peculiarities of the typewriter , and i wrote to the man himself at his business address asking him if he would come here .
we supplied him with the bust some months ago .
you do me no more than justice , sir until this morning i have never breathed one word to my wife upon this matter .
yes , yes ,
it 's good to see you back in london , sir
his name , i have every reason to believe , is jonathan small .
well , we can only possess our soul in patience until this excellent inspector come back for us .
was there a police station anywhere near ?
it is very unlike his usual writing , and yet i know it well .
you see , a good many of the criminal classes begin to know me , especially since our friend here took to publishing some of my cases : so i can only go on the war path under some simple disguise like this .
that was all he could tell us .
the windows of the three rooms open out upon the lawn .
did n't i tell you so when we started ?
certainly but what a wretched weapon !
and so am i , sir ,
dr huxtable had sent a telegram .
what was i doing with the lady ?
at the same instant the bookcase at which holmes pointed swung round upon a hinge , and a woman rushed out into the room .
those which are ticked have been traced on the london market , but the others , presumably , were still in the possession of carey , and young neligan , according to his own account , was anxious to recover them in order to do the right thing by his father 's creditors .
and what have you gained ?
the hall door had hardly slammed behind our visitor before holmes had descended the stair .
i had to read it over carefully , as the text must be absolutely correct .
pray let me have a detailed account of what the circumstances are which have disturbed you .
that , then , should be the centre of my search .
he was the keeper of a low den in which i used to lodge in swandam lane , where i could every morning emerge as a squalid beggar and in the evenings transform myself into a well dressed man about town .
official requisition for your services is in separate envelope .
wait a little , mr holder .
before he knew that his son had returned .
in this sinister way i came into my inheritance .
had been tattooed in the bend of the elbow .
the atmosphere of the room was of a horrible and depressing stuffiness .
why , i seem to have read of the scowrers in chicago .
one never knows either who to trust or who not to trust .
a very placid and respectable lady , who seemed quite innocent of any secret , and a portrait which showed me that she had two younger sisters .
i could swear only to the beard .
this is the garden path of which i spoke , mr holmes .
announced our page boy , throwing open the door .
that 's better ,
and yet the motives of women are so inscrutable .
with gum on to the paper .
the proper study of mankind is man , ' you know .
he shouted ,
he was lounging upon the sofa in a purple dressing gown , a pipe rack within his reach upon the right , and a pile of crumpled morning papers , evidently newly studied , near at hand .
he leaned back in his chair and laughed his eyes into his head again .
now , i should be very glad if you would have the kindness to show us over the house , mr cunningham .
there 's an almighty small chance for us now !
we do n't seem to get a gleam of light in the case , mr holmes .
unless the powder from a badly fitting cartridge happens to spurt backward , one may fire many shots without leaving a sign .
you cunning , cunning fiend !
i need not point out to you that your refusal to answer will prejudice your case considerably in any future proceedings which may arise .
i had no keys of the doors only of the safe .
well , we shall see if the inside throws any light upon the matter .
we will talk about that .
my attention was speedily drawn , as i have already remarked to you , to this ventilator , and to the bell rope which hung down to the bed .
on the contrary , i never met a straighter man in my life .
a waiting game .
all was exactly as i left it , save only that the papers which had been committed to my care had been taken from the desk on which they lay .
no , i see nothing in that .
returned the king reproachfully .
it is the five miles of country which makes the danger .
you are the mormons .
i may say with confidence that he never had occasion to regret his speculation .
i 'm miss ettie shafter , mr shafter 's daughter .
he used to join in our speculations as to what could have happened .
yes , mr holmes , there is no rest for me until i have got to the bottom of the business .
its tenacious grip plucked at our heels as we walked , and when we sank into it it was as if some malignant hand was tugging us down into those obscene depths , so grim and purposeful was the clutch in which it held us .
there are no less than four such numbers visible to my lens on the inside of this case .
he is in charge of the hall .
come on !
for it made me angry to see the easy way in which mr windibank that is , my father took it all .
having taken the printed description .
crime is common .
did he get any letters ?
he took no heed of any of us , but his eyes were fixed upon holmes 's face with an expression in which hatred and amazement were equally blended .
my heart leaped within me as i saw it .
it was unlikely that she would dare to say that she had not been to baskerville hall if she really had been , for a trap would be necessary to take her there , and could not have returned to coombe tracey until the early hours of the morning .
goethe is always pithy .
exactly ,
what on earth for ?
well , sir , they were that he was to have a key of the house .
he spoke now in a half jesting fashion , but a look of terror still lurked at the back of his eyes .
he knew he was safe with her but when there was a chance of a husband coming forward , who would ask for all that the law would give him , then her father thought it time to put a stop on it .
then you are guilty .
to speak plainly , the matter implicates the great house of ormstein , hereditary kings of bohemia .
he sits motionless , like a spider in the center of its web , but that web has a thousand radiations , and he knows well every quiver of each of them .
mrs stapleton knew that he had designs upon the old man , and also of the existence of the hound .
his rooms were brilliantly lit , and , even as i looked up , i saw his tall , spare figure pass twice in a dark silhouette against the blind .
he held out his hand .
among our comrades of the order , there was one who was the friend of my heart .
capital !
not only this , but on the table i found a small ball of black dough or clay , with specks of something which looks like sawdust in it .
only when it is quite convenient to you , sir
i 've been down to scotland yard , mr holmes .
let us put it to a practical test .
he has occasional glimmerings of reason .
excuse me , dr armstrong , i think we are a little at cross purposes ,
well , it was only a paragraph , and all wrong at that , so you have not missed anything .
it is wonderful !
i wish you , mr holmes , to come to mackleton with me by the next train .
no wonder you get results that are beyond us .
the discovery was first made by mr sherlock holmes and dr watson , who had called at the house with mr thaddeus sholto , brother of the deceased .
i am told that he was an excellent cyclist .
you do n't comply with the conditions if you budge from the office during that time .
there is some building going on there ,
i allow that hell must be something like that .
as i read the evidence at the inquest , which led up to a verdict of willful murder against some person or persons unknown , i realized more clearly than i had ever done the loss which the community had sustained by the death of sherlock holmes .
you have presented an inch or two of it to my examination all the time that you have been talking .
do you stay here , and the odds are that you will see me again in an hour or two .
the ground was all stamped down by the feet of horses , showing that a large party of mounted men had overtaken the fugitives , and the direction of their tracks proved that they had afterwards turned back to salt lake city .
by the way , i was under the impression that i left this door shut just now .
we could get no information from her , however , as she is very old and feeble .
it also mentioned the hour of the alarm , which was close on to midnight last night .
i have the threads of this affair all in my hand .
out there fell a cascade of children 's bricks .
the newcomers were colonel lysander stark and a short thick man with a chinchilla beard growing out of the creases of his double chin , who was introduced to me as mr ferguson .
from the first it was a success .
we did know , however , that some mystery some positive danger overhung our father .
not that i am in the least conventional in that respect myself .
on the contrary , he put his finger tips together and leaned his elbows on the arms of his chair , like one who has a relish for conversation .
my friend waited until the door had closed behind the retreating secretary .
not another word did he say of the case until late that night , when he was turning away , with his lighted candle , for his bedroom .
there are indications that she has had recourse to an optician at least twice during the last few months .
both mr and mrs rucastle expressed a delight at the look of it , which seemed quite exaggerated in its vehemence .
he yelled .
did he say so ?
the plan is his .
why should she turn so pale ?
were it not for the ugly wound upon my hand , all that had passed during those dreadful hours might have been an evil dream .
he was pale and dejected , stained with dust , and exhausted with hunger and fatigue .
i have been robbed and beaten and abused because i have been the friend of the company .
he cried .
come , watson , let us see what he does .
he and lestrade are the pick of a bad lot .
and she was seen walking with this very woman afterwards ?
i trust that this may all prove to be an absurd mistake , but you can see that ah , would you ?
what sort of burglars are they who steal silver and then throw it into the nearest pond ?
when he was sober he used to be fond of playing backgammon and draughts with me , and he would make me his representative both with the servants and with the tradespeople , so that by the time that i was sixteen i was quite master of the house .
well , it depends upon what you think worth reporting .
if he refuses , we have no alternative but to apply for a warrant .
you are close to the king 's pyland training stables , ' said she .
i thought people would talk if i went to the hall .
well , let it rest at that .
my examination showed me that i was dealing with a cautious and expert criminal .
well , he has always answered me like that .
this fellow is a perfect savage , as strong as a cart horse and as fierce as the devil .
so you can fix things with him right away .
now , what is your own impression as to the young lady 's your wife 's character ?
his voice is unmistakable .
i did not breathe freely until i had taken it upstairs and locked it in the bureau of my dressing room .
but they were hopeful that nothing of great importance had yet come to the detective 's knowledge , as otherwise , they argued , he would not have troubled to write down and forward such trivial information as mcmurdo claimed to have given him .
however , if you can catch him i do n't see how i can refuse you an interview with him .
the landlady had become so accustomed to my late habits that my place had not been laid nor my coffee prepared .
you will , i am sure , excuse my presumption , dr watson ,
oh , it got about things do get about for good and for bad in this district .
come up , my dear sir ,
then , if you are not too sleepy , i will give you a sketch of what has happened , and of what remains to be done .
you must drop it , mr holmes ,
he pushed the creasote handkerchief under the dog 's nose , while the creature stood with its fluffy legs separated , and with a most comical cock to its head , like a connoisseur sniffing the bouquet of a famous vintage .
yes , but how can we get at the criminal 's pocket before we catch the criminal ?
in a word , i turned over a new leaf and did my best to make up for the past .
do you dare to suggest that i have given away my own agents !
it would be a sharp eyed coroner , indeed , who could distinguish the two little dark punctures which would show where the poison fangs had done their work .
it seems to me to be a little weak ,
why had he sent me from london to birmingham ?
no better explanation can be given with our present knowledge and yet consider , sherlock , how much you leave untouched .
with kind regards ,
wherever the high gable folk go he will keep them in sight .
it 's just the last stroke that will bring them all to their knees .
he therefore left his machine where it would not be discovered until he had got safely away .
for answer , he took a big red book out of a drawer .
you can see for yourselves the state in which i was left .
i only know what i saw with my own eyes .
i remember that as i picked them up , i observed the title of one of them , the origin of tree worship , and it struck me that the fellow must be some poor bibliophile , who , either as a trade or as a hobby , was a collector of obscure volumes .
funds were wanting , however , and for some time he had to return to work , saving every dollar for his approaching journey .
oh , ted , be reasonable be kind !
i hereby banish it completely from my presence .
perhaps .
how in thunder came you to know anything about it ?
on his way home he met an old shipmate , and took a long walk with him .
you can leave the time to me .
cried jones , highly delighted .
he was a huge man , the secretary , deep , broad , and tall , with a slow , heavy fashion of speech which had been his main asset in his political career .
you say so !
on monday .
clair , i was arrested as his murderer .
for my part ,
i knew that she read the messages , for once she wrote an answer under one of them .
it was a long ten minutes before grant munro broke the silence , and when his answer came it was one of which i love to think .
perhaps you cannot yourself recall how your reverie commenced ?
after all , a bicycle is not an easy thing to conceal or to destroy .
there was no one in charles street , but a great traffic was going on , as usual , in whitehall , at the extremity .
but how ?
oberstein offered me five thousand .
but they listened to my story with a smile .
it strikes me , my good lestrade , as being just a trifle too obvious ,
my father was a schoolmaster in chesterfield , where i received an excellent education .
last week he hurled the local blacksmith over a parapet into a stream , and it was only by paying over all the money which i could gather together that i was able to avert another public exposure .
it was a poor weapon , but perhaps the best that he could lay his hands on at the moment .
where ?
the book showed that two names had been added after that of baskerville .
yes , but only for you and me .
so much the woman was able to tell me , and also that it was a wonder the man lived , seeing how twisted he was , and that he spoke in a strange tongue sometimes , and that for the last two nights she had heard him groaning and weeping in his bedroom .
ask me what you like , and there is nothing which i shall hold back .
yes , sir
is that you , mr smith ?
i could see no marks to guide me , but the carpet was of a dun colour , which lends itself very well to examination .
have you got that slip ?
or should you rather that i sent james off to bed ?
so much for the death of sir charles baskerville .
the poison still remained upon the talc had they the wit to find it .
never mind the reward .
no , sir , i shall approach this case from the point of view that what this young man says is true , and we shall see whither that hypothesis will lead us .
its appearance and the dust upon the bottle showed that it was no common vintage which the murderers had enjoyed .
there was holmes sitting close to us with an air of quiet amusement .
i have given you a serious shock by my unnecessarily dramatic reappearance .
i 'm asking you to conseedar
there are a good many other points of detail which will , no doubt , come to light in good time .
i cannot understand it ,
tell me all about it ,
your old school fellow ,
i will get her to show me .
the fellow must be somewhere .
he appeared to be much surprised at seeing me and asked me rather roughly what i was doing there .
no , the gas .
i knew your energetic nature , and that you would not be happy until you had been on the scene of the crime .
for god 's sake , have mercy !
i should imagine not ,
holmes sprang to his feet , all energy in an instant .
to holmes , as i could see by his eager face and peering eyes , very many other things were to be read upon the trampled grass .
both he and the lascar stoutly swore that no one else had been in the front room during the afternoon .
number one has had the misfortune to tread in the creosote .
dear me !
i hate to meet her , watson , when i have no news of her husband .
i must inform you , gentlemen , that the priory is a preparatory school , of which i am the founder and principal .
they soon had a proof , however , that they were still within the jurisdiction of the saints .
well , i followed you to your door , and so made sure that i was really an object of interest to the celebrated mr sherlock holmes .
the telegram still remains the only solid thing with which we have to deal , and we must not permit our attention to wander away from it .
we are certainly making some progress .
he had remained with horner some little time , but had finally been called away .
a huge driving wheel and a shaft half filled with rubbish showed the position of an abandoned mine .
he led him across to the doctor 's door .
i waited all day without news of him .
as to reward , my profession is its own reward but you are at liberty to defray whatever expenses i may be put to , at the time which suits you best .
i must see that paper , musgrave , which this butler of yours thought it worth his while to consult , even at the risk of the loss of his place .
that would be unnecessary .
one more question .
but when , for the fourth time , after pushing back our chairs from breakfast we saw the greasy , heavy brown swirl still drifting past us and condensing in oily drops upon the window panes , my comrade 's impatient and active nature could endure this drab existence no longer .
a more perfect compound of the bully , coward , and sneak than master silas brown i have seldom met with ,
the coat of arms was on the envelope , and it was addressed in the duke 's peculiar stiff hand .
lestrade shrugged his shoulders .
i 've lived among rough men , my darling , and instead of fearing them it has always ended that they have feared me always , ettie .
well , mislaid it , anyhow .
my opinion is in no way altered .
that is the best advice which i can give you , mr hilton cubitt .
and they did so .
when at last he descended , it was with triumph in his eyes , but he said nothing to either of us as to the result of his researches .
coming at once .
it must , then , be something out of the house .
the idea of murder was not in her mind , or she would have provided herself with some sort of weapon , instead of having to pick this knife off the writing table .
it 's not him we are talking about .
then he looked up with a smile .
there are not many who would come to share our danger and our troubles .
in a couple of nights , when they had time to see what view the papers took , and whether there was any suspicion , they would make their way under cover of darkness to some ship at gravesend or in the downs , where no doubt they had already arranged for passages to america or the colonies .
from ten o clock onward mr lucas had the house to himself .
i thought you would say so , mr holmes ,
perhaps they stood here for some time ,
i gave a start of astonishment .
thank you , you have gone rather too far to stop .
i should recommend you also to send a note by the cabman to your wife to say that you have thrown in your lot with me .
you 're surprised to see me , sir ,
he seemed to take a fancy to me from the first , and within two days of our meeting he came to see me at lee .
i 'm a free born american , and it 's all new to me .
so , gentlemen ,
it must be done at once .
no , sir , i 'll not believe it .
holmes laughed good naturedly .
i have not introduced you yet ,
my sympathies are with the criminals rather than with the victim , and i will not handle this case .
no , sir
sir henry put his hand upon my shoulder with a pleasant smile .
to hear his quick step moving here and moving there from early morning to late at night , and yet never to catch so much as a glimpse of him it 's more than i can stand .
but as i did so the face suddenly disappeared , so suddenly that it seemed to have been plucked away into the darkness of the room .
and one who was at home in the district , for the pool can only be approached by the farm or by the estate , where strangers could hardly wander .
morphine or cocaine ?
but what i can n't make head or tail of , mr holmes , is how on earth you got yourself mixed up in the matter .
he gathered up the garments , thrust them into the bag , and made for the door .
holmes had sat intently observant during this long discussion , missing no word that was said , with his keen eyes darting to right and to left , and his forehead wrinkled with speculation .
a cup of coffee would clear my brain .
this is surely most unfair and ungenerous upon your part .
the case was concerned with a will , and possessed some features of interest .
i dropped the silver into the pond , and made off for sydenham , feeling that for once in my life i had done a real good night 's work .
those i gave you were as good as any others but i never spent money better .
even now i see what you have done , but i do n't know how you did it or what it signifies .
at the same instant lestrade gave a yell of terror and threw himself face downward upon the ground .
it is too much to be balked by so petty an obstacle , when all else had been overcome .
if you are mr john douglas of birlstone manor , then whose death have we been investigating for these two days , and where in the world have you sprung from now ?
i went with musgrave to his study and whittled myself this peg , to which i tied this long string with a knot at each yard .
it is my business ,
the ticket would have shown which station was nearest the agent 's house .
the sergeant considered for a moment .
i daresay you can manage all right on the sofa in front of the fire .
very sorry , mr thaddeus , but orders are very strict .
why do you not write them yourself ?
in a minute we had torn off the gag , unswathed the bonds , and mrs stapleton sank upon the floor in front of us .
she would never have a quiet moment again but would always be imagining trouble .
and what had you to report ?
well , anyhow , that was in his mind .
i was fairly at the end of my tether at last , and could hardly find the stamps to answer the advertisements or the envelopes to stick them to .
you look like a general who is planning a battle with his chief of the staff .
when he came to the highroad at the other end , i found that the pavement had been cleared , so there was an end to that clue .
i 've had my eye on him this year past .
holmes glanced reproachfully at me .
some blankets rolled in a waterproof lay upon that very stone slab upon which neolithic man had once slumbered .
as you have no doubt frequently observed , watson , the impression usually goes through a fact which has dissolved many a happy marriage .
among other things i exhibited this powder , and i told him of its strange properties , how it stimulates those brain centres which control the emotion of fear , and how either madness or death is the fate of the unhappy native who is subjected to the ordeal by the priest of his tribe .
he unfolded a paper and laid it upon the table .
you know him ?
when you have finished , come downstairs with me , and i will introduce you to a detective who is a very eminent specialist in the work that lies before us .
he escaped as you have just described .
he began by taking a clean white cloth from a drawer and laying it over the table .
there was no name or address appended .
it was clear that he thought that our night 's work might be a serious one .
and whom do you accuse ?
i have no one to turn to none , save only one , who cares for me , and he , poor fellow , can be of little aid .
had he lost his wife ?
no , sir
we then went upstairs together , and having entered the room and seen the dressing gown hanging up behind the door , i contrived , by upsetting a table , to engage their attention for the moment , and slipped back to examine the pockets .
is it not so ?
the mere knowing of his name is a small thing , however , compared with the power of laying our hands upon him .
one day my wife received a letter from america .
he cried suddenly .
he sat opposite to me , and lit a cigarette in his old , nonchalant manner .
let me assure them that this little bundle of letters would give more joy than all the candelabra and butter dishes in london .
let us make for mr morse hudson , of the kennington road , and see if he can throw any light upon the problem .
it is our french gold ,
he may be here any moment .
i thought that if i told you the circumstances you would understand afterwards if i wanted your help .
they all agreed that only two voices were to be heard , those of barclay and of his wife .
we tottered together upon the brink of the fall .
that is the way to prosper !
we know something of saxe coburg square .
is our man .
are you in the police yourself ?
there he was , sure enough , a small urchin with a little bundle upon his shoulder , toiling slowly up the hill .
but how could you guess what the motive was ?
exactly .
mcmurdo grinned as he produced a wad of dollar notes ,
the development for which my friend had asked came in a quicker and an infinitely more tragic form than he could have imagined .
for years i waited .
this carpet was a small square drugget in the centre of the room , surrounded by a broad expanse of beautiful , old fashioned wood flooring in square blocks , highly polished .
did you observe where the bullet went ?
i brought this with me .
his reason for attempting this special line of business was that he had struck up an acquaintance with a consumptive tutor upon the voyage home , and that he had used this man 's ability to make the undertaking a success .
holmes and i glanced at each other , and hall pycroft took a step towards the table .
he is a silent , morose man , but he has , on the whole , an excellent record in the public service .
he turned the two best rooms of the first floor into a sitting room and bedroom for himself .
on the whole , and between ourselves , it will be a brighter house without him .
the alternative was that someone passing had observed the key in the door , had known that i was out , and had entered to look at the papers .
they next placed a thick black cap right over his head and the upper assembly hall .
but perhaps it may grow lighter as we go .
that will do , mr melas ,
i was inclined to think at one time that he knew who had done it and was screening him or her , but i am convinced now that he is as puzzled as everyone else .
from out of her bosom lady hilda had drawn a small key .
this concluded the examination of the witness .
the whole question of the netherland sumatra company and of the colossal schemes of baron maupertuis are too recent in the minds of the public , and are too intimately concerned with politics and finance to be fitting subjects for this series of sketches .
that sounded ominous .
they thought to tire me out , but they could not do it .
i think , dr huxtable , that we will now return to the hall .
she is a sunbeam in my house sweet , loving , beautiful , a wonderful manager and housekeeper , yet as tender and quiet and gentle as a woman could be .
it suggests halloa , my dear fellow , what on earth is the matter ?
he told us of similar cases , where families had suffered from some evil influence , and he left us with the impression that he shared the popular view upon the matter .
my companion let down the window , and i caught a glimpse of a low , arched doorway with a lamp burning above it .
no doubt you thought that your breach of duty could never be discovered , and yet a mere glance at that drugget was enough to convince me that someone had been admitted to the room .
you fool , you would have it and you have got it .
i had come to believe that he was an orphan with no relatives living , but one day , to my very great surprise , he began to talk to me about his brother .
good heavens !
i was amazed at the calm way in which he rippled on .
it was a cunning device , for , apart from the chance of driving your victim to his death , what peasant would venture to inquire too closely into such a creature should he get sight of it , as many have done , upon the moor ?
he pointed to a space over which naval signals was printed .
my surprise reached a climax , however , when i found incidentally that he was ignorant of the copernican theory and of the composition of the solar system .
i may as well give up the attempt at once .
stapleton looked at me with a curious expression in his face .
we thought that it was probably you , as your friendship with mr sherlock holmes is so well known .
you coward !
so ardent a bicyclist must be full of energy .
he took off his coat and waistcoat , put on a large blue dressing gown , and then wandered about the room collecting pillows from his bed and cushions from the sofa and armchairs .
a singular set of people , watson the man himself the most singular of them all .
inspector bradstreet , b division , gave evidence as to the arrest of horner , who struggled frantically , and protested his innocence in the strongest terms evidence of a previous conviction for robbery having been given against the prisoner , the magistrate refused to deal summarily with the offence , but referred it to the assizes .
neither , sir it was william the coachman .
the farmers about here do n't like it , sir , and that 's a fact .
the pounds a week was a lure which must draw him , and what was it to them , who were playing for thousands ?
i can recommend them , for i have them especially prepared by ionides , of alexandria .
it was a september evening , and not yet seven o'clock , but the day had been a dreary one , and a dense drizzly fog lay low upon the great city .
this is astonishing ,
you will sign it , and watson here can witness it .
he could only continue to keep a secret watch upon the efforts made to find the treasure .
cheer up , watson , for i am very sure that our material has not yet all come to hand .
after alluding airily to the vehmgericht , aqua tofana , carbonari , the marchioness de brinvilliers , the darwinian theory , the principles of malthus , and the ratcliff highway murders , the article concluded by admonishing the government and advocating a closer watch over foreigners in england .
in every other direction the moor is a complete wilderness , inhabited only by a few roaming gypsies .
in that case our friend the image breaker has begun operations in another quarter of london .
yes , we 've had a scare in this part lately .
mr melas , however , still lived , and in less than an hour , with the aid of ammonia and brandy i had the satisfaction of seeing him open his eyes , and of knowing that my hand had drawn him back from that dark valley in which all paths meet .
the top floor belongs to miles mclaren .
good heavens !
mcmurdo 's neighbour informed him .
never for an instant did we suspect that he had the whole secret hidden in his own breast , that of all men he alone knew the fate of arthur morstan .
give up the letter and all will be set right .
he is to pay a five shilling reply .
he left you in a rage , and began to make his own plans independently of you .
it is a stake for which a man might well play a desperate game .
what month did we meet him ?
everywhere else they were helpless fugitives .
i could not dream of sacrificing it in this offhand fashion .
but there i was firm .
he is not a very quick witted youth , though comely to look at and , i should think , sound at heart .
he repeated , with the petulant obstinacy of a very old man .
i neither know nor care !
as we left the house lestrade remained in the front room , while the repentant constable opened the door to let us out .
this is black ink and the other purplish .
its light shone upon his strong , resolute , clean shaved face and his menacing eyes .
nothing ?
he had trained it , probably by the use of the milk which we saw , to return to him when summoned .
please god it shall never fall upon you !
watson , i think our quiet rest in the country has been a distinct success , and i shall certainly return much invigorated to baker street to morrow .
not , i fear , a very auspicious beginning .
however there appears to be nothing more to learn , and we may now go down to the scene of the crime .
the hand which fastened that pin might have struck him to the heart , and he could never have known who had slain him .
a chair had been placed close to the central window , with its back turned towards it .
he was bemoaning himself this morning because he could not get someone to go halves with him in some nice rooms which he had found , and which were too much for his purse .
well , mr holmes , it is difficult for me to refuse you anything , for you have been of use to the force once or twice in the past , and we owe you a good turn at scotland yard ,
the man groaned and sank his face in his hands .
that would account for the angry return , and also for the girl 's denial that anything had occurred .
then , when they talked of marrying within the week , i began to ask about father but they both said never to mind about father , but just to tell him afterwards , and mother said she would make it all right with him .
it is the first quality of a criminal investigator that he should see through a disguise .
but there is one little flaw in your splendid theory .
i hope that i may have the pleasure of introducing you to night .
it clearly belongs to your daughter , and i am glad to be able to restore it to the rightful owner .
he laughed heartily at my perplexity .
mr woodley seemed to me to be a most odious person .
thrust away behind a curtain in the front room were all the clothes of mr neville st .
it is possible .
why should she have been so reticent at the time of the tragedy ?
i traced her !
i have found them out .
the original hound was material enough to tug a man 's throat out , and yet he was diabolical as well .
it is very probable .
there was evidently some mark , some thumbprint , something which might give a clue to the person 's identity .
a man named abelwhite , who had come out there as an indigo planter , wanted an overseer to look after his coolies and keep them up to their work .
there was not one of them which i did not apply to the inquiry .
i should say that only a clean shaven man could have smoked this .
gold albert chain , very heavy and solid .
but i know that there is foul play going on , and i want to help that unhappy man if i can .
from the first moment that he saw her he appeared to be strongly attracted by her , and i am much mistaken if the feeling was not mutual .
were you present when he opened it ?
that i have heard of birdy edwards , and that he has the name of being the best man in the pinkerton service .
only last night we had news that the couple had been hunted down in liverpool , and they prove to have no connection whatever with the matter in hand .
she brought , i understand , a considerable dowry ?
will that content you ?
if he is quick enough to catch his bird , well and good .
you had my note ?
as they raised him , a ring tinkled down and rolled across the floor .
i dressed hurriedly , for i knew by experience that railway cases were seldom trivial , and hastened downstairs .
he muttered .
as our visitor concluded , holmes sprang up without a word , handed me my hat , picked his own from the table , and followed dr trevelyan to the door .
what an eye you have !
miss stoner did so , and holmes , after a careful examination through the open window , endeavoured in every way to force the shutter open , but without success .
this morning when i saw his bones sticking out of his face and his great bright eyes looking at me i could stand no more of it .
i guess i took him on his weak point ,
here it is ,
holmes had lit his lantern and flashed it upon the massive door .
for that matter ,
in a hundred other ways he has helped him .
so much for the lascar manager .
you need not , however , go to the expense of purchasing one , as we have one belonging to my dear daughter alice now in philadelphia , which would , i should think , fit you very well .
all the rest of the night i tossed and tumbled , framing theory after theory , each more unlikely than the last .
the second and third had been patiently occupied upon a subject which he had recently made his hobby the music of the middle ages .
so startling would his results appear to the uninitiated that until they learned the processes by which he had arrived at them they might well consider him as a necromancer .
finally , in my aimless perambulation , i came to the mantelpiece .
it is the unofficial force , the baker street irregulars .
ah , that is what i would give so much to know .
it seems to me that you have been very shamefully treated ,
he in turn had had it from someone else .
his pall mall lodgings , the diogenes club , whitehall that is his cycle .
yes , sir , ' i answered , pushing a chair towards him .
what have you to gain from it ?
i have had a long talk with sir henry this morning , and we have made a plan of campaign founded upon my observations of last night .
i was mad insane .
holmes took his hat and shrugged his shoulders .
as i spoke a powerful bay horse swept out from the weighing enclosure and cantered past us , bearing on its back the well known black and red of the colonel .
i would have spared her , perhaps , for all my madness , but she threw her arms round him , crying out to him , and calling him alec . i struck again , and she lay stretched beside him .
the large oak panelled , book lined room had a curtain hung in the further corner .
as for the article i wrote it myself .
i spent a day in the search , and by evening this very evening , watson i had run him down .
our case is not complete .
during that time i have lived happily at horsham , and i had begun to hope that this curse had passed away from the family , and that it had ended with the last generation .
i am asking you now to put everything to the test with me , and you will judge for yourselves whether the observations i have made justify the conclusions to which i have come .
i wrote to her , but got no answer .
the terror of his face lay in his eyes , however , steel gray , and glistening coldly with a malignant , inexorable cruelty in their depths .
keep your forgiveness for those who ask for it , ' he answered , turning away from me with a sneer .
but surely i have heard that the drawbridge is kept up all night .
but i understand , holmes , that you are turning to practical ends those powers with which you used to amaze us ?
i was so terrified that i do not know what i did .
and yet , if it were not for the loss of the charming companionship of the boys , i could rejoice over my own misfortune , for , with my strong tastes for botany and zoology , i find an unlimited field of work here , and my sister is as devoted to nature as i am .
i can hardly think that you would find many decent citizens to agree with you ,
it was not four feet from the window ledge to the roof of the carriages .
i should be delighted to look into any problem which you might submit to me .
well , here we are at chiselhurst station , and we shall soon set our doubts at rest .
i desire you to spare no expense and no pains to get at the truth .
he was a good sized , powerful man , and as he stood poising himself with legs astride i could see that from the thigh downwards there was but a wooden stump upon the right side .
but it was destined that i should after all have a last word of greeting from my friend and comrade .
that the ears are not a pair .
place it here among the papers .
he had some analytical genius , no doubt but he was by no means such a phenomenon as poe appeared to imagine .
the only point which i could not quite understand was what use you could make of a hydraulic press in excavating fuller 's earth , which , as i understand , is dug out like gravel from a pit .
the gravel upon the window sill was , of course , the starting point of my research .
regina i venture to think that a thrill of indignation will run through the country .
i read his record aloud .
i know some of them .
because it would spare your majesty all fear of future annoyance .
two days ago i received the letter which i now read to you .
of course it is a nucleus and focus of crime .
and now i have a very strange experience to tell you .
but i understand that it is something more modern and practical upon which you wish to consult me ?
did i buy the geese off you ?
what was i , an army surgeon with a weak leg and a weaker banking account , that i should dare to think of such things ?
she stopped .
he unfolded the rough chart , which i here reproduce ,
i am in your hands , anna ,
sir charles 's generosity has given us the means to do so .
what do you think we should do ?
it 's a dead earnest business proposition that 's out for results and keeps out till by hook or crook it gets them .
why , yes ,
i hired a boat for myself , and i pulled after them .
we hope very soon to return to devonshire .
he must have perfectly understood that the servants would all be in bed at that comparatively early hour , and that no one could possibly hear a bell ring in the kitchen .
with eduardo lucas lies the solution of our problem , though i must admit that i have not an inkling as to what form it may take .
well , it corroborates the young man 's story to the extent that the will was drawn up by jonas oldacre in his journey yesterday .
and now , my dear watson , without referring to my notes , i cannot give you a more detailed account of this curious case .
you remember that i wrote to arthur upon that last day .
oh , yes , sir i have only just left him .
good lord , mister !
the wells are to the right , my brothers ,
my very next question might have cleared the matter up , but at that instant the door opened and a woman stepped into the room .
i guess you 're going to take me to the police station ,
now we can talk in safety .
the others are hindoos or mohammedans .
he can probably tell us all the details we want until we know from what side the case is to be approached .
i went round to my employer , found him in the same dismantled kind of room , and was told to keep at it until wednesday , and then come again .
the most serious point in the case is the disposition of the child .
it was but for a moment , for the action of the alkaloid is rapid .
october th .
when mortimer told me your name he could not deny your identity .
let us walk ,
at the same time , mr white mason , i claim the right to work in my own way and give my results at my own time complete rather than in stages .
it is the supposed murder of colonel barclay , of the royal munsters , at aldershot , which i am investigating .
for i have another small business on hand .
but now , mr holmes , i invite your attention to the kitchen .
is that all clear ?
his work consisted in writing all the morning to the professor 's dictation , and he usually spent the evening in hunting up references and passages which bore upon the next day 's work .
one page is missing , but otherwise they are exactly as written and show my feelings and suspicions of the moment more accurately than my memory , clear as it is upon these tragic events , can possibly do .
hardly that , watson .
no , my dear fellow we must reconcile ourselves to the fact that we have no case at present , and that it is worth our while to run any risk in order to establish one .
it was not a thing that i could take to the police , for they would have laughed at me , but you will tell me what to do .
i knew nothing of this affair until i was in the train , when i read what you have just heard .
as we sat at the table my back was to the window , and my brother george , he being my partner at cards , was facing it .
i called last night , as i have already said , at the manor house .
i cannot afford to throw any extra strain upon it .
i placed my hand upon the glowing muzzle , and as i held them up my own fingers smouldered and gleamed in the darkness .
on the contrary , his austere face was even more severe than usual as he commented upon the things that i had done and the things that i had not .
my morning 's work has not been wasted , since it has proved that he has the very strongest motives for standing in the way of anything of the sort .
will confirm by advertisement .
a serious operation will be necessary before that can be done .
at what hour was the office closed on monday ?
i think it 's well worth troubling about .
i can follow the other points ,
i had , however , promised to take tea in a friend 's rooms , so i left the proof upon my desk .
will you fix it , brother baldwin ?
an outspoken , honest antagonist is the doctor ,
surely ,
excellent , watson !
he held out his snuffbox of old gold , with a great amethyst in the centre of the lid .
our present research appears to be a case of murder .
it is the only hypothesis which covers the facts .
you seem heeled and ready .
those two men might still be crouching in the doorway , but i could no longer see them .
things are going to happen in this valley .
he was speaking in his natural voice a little weak , perhaps , but the very voice i knew .
i understand that william was usually in bed also at that hour .
his hand closed round the other 's neck , and he hurled him back across one of the barrels .
listen to this : ' you will see me when all is ready .
he held down the light , and the marks of muddy boots were very visible in the corner .
solution .
he added as he looked hard at the corner of a tracing before putting it in the box .
i do n't fear them , or their warrant ,
this is where young mcfarlane must have come out to get his hat after the crime was done ,
the second most dangerous man in london .
this was not all .
you think , then , sir , that i should give the information to the governor general ?
lady with a black boa at prince 's skating club ' that we may pass .
cried phelps .
but the modern part is nothing like the size of the old quarter , where nobody goes , and which is given over to the scorpions and the centipedes .
the owner is obviously a muscular man , left handed , with an excellent set of teeth , careless in his habits , and with no need to practise economy .
broke in the engineer ,
all this is amusing , though rather elementary , but i must go back to business , watson .
isa whitney , brother of the late elias whitney , d .
i found this single sheet upon the floor of his room , and i am inclined to think that it may be one of the papers which has , perhaps , fluttered out from among the others , and in that way has escaped destruction .
please come yourself first and tell us what you know .
i think there will be no difficulty in clearing it up ,
i suppose that man phelps does not drink ?
the case might have been dealt leniently with , but the laws were more harshly administered thirty years ago than now , and on my twenty third birthday i found myself chained as a felon with thirty seven other convicts in ' tween decks of the bark gloria scott , bound for australia .
yes , the wicket gate which leads on to the moor .
i presume they were of value ?
if you will only come round at quarter to twelve to the east gate you will learn what will very much surprise you and maybe sic be of the greatest service to you and also to annie morrison .
sometimes the fatal numbers appeared upon the walls , sometimes upon the floors , occasionally they were on small placards stuck upon the garden gate or the railings .
at quarter to twelve learn what maybe
is there any other point which you would like to ask about ?
holmes whispered .
well , well .
for my part , i should like all europe and america to hear the rights of it .
the hand of god is leading us under the person of our prophet .
what is your plan , then ?
every one .
it gave me the chills to think of killing him , but i thought of the treasure , and my heart set as hard as a flint within me .
you interest me exceedingly .
oh , yes i have known him solve questions which presented fewer clues than yours .
the ceremony , which was performed at st .
i tell you , watson , in all seriousness , that if i could beat that man , if i could free society of him , i should feel that my own career had reached its summit , and i should be prepared to turn to some more placid line in life .
but in examining his belongings i was fortunate enough to discover not only the method of the crime , but even its motives .
horrible enough !
why , watson , i do honestly believe that we are going to pull it off , after all .
inquiry was , of course , made at once at holdernesse hall .
it would break her heart it will break her heart when she hears that i am arrested .
hurry on !
there has been an enclosure here !
we must see what further cards we have in our hands and play them with decision .
yes , sir '
i whipped up the mare and we were there under the ten minutes .
did n't i tell you he shot jim carnaway ?
good day to you , miss hunter .
sherlock holmes had pushed away his untasted breakfast and lit the unsavoury pipe which was the companion of his deepest meditations .
lestrade laughed .
you shall live like a princess .
through the gate now to the right among the laurels .
i can see now how she was plotting and scheming and poisoning my wife 's mind against me , but i was such a blind beetle that i could not understand it at the time .
that 's so .
let her be the first to open it .
finally , to my astonishment , holmes climbed up on to the massive mantelpiece .
we will see if my three years of absence have entirely taken away my power to surprise you .
it is too much to suppose that her father is still alive .
she 's as true as steel and as deaf as a post .
that was a week ago , and from that time i have not sat again in the window , nor have i worn the blue dress , nor seen the man in the road .
but you or i could squeeze through all right .
under him were three lads for the establishment was a small one , containing only four horses in all .
but this is not a practical joke .
well , did you think of such a thing when you joined the freeman 's society at chicago ?
however , i have no doubt that with a little delicacy and finesse the end may be attained .
ryder stood glaring with a drawn face , uncertain whether to claim or to disown it .
bannister 's face was ghastly .
it seemed likely enough that the weighted coat had remained when the stripped body had been sucked away into the river .
i cannot help feeling that gregson is right , sir ,
it was a just providence that killed him .
what can you gather yourself as to the individuality of the man who has worn this article ?
one side of the window was open , which i understand was quite usual in the summer time , and he passed without difficulty into the room .
well , well , my dear fellow , be it so .
why , now that you mention it , i remember that my poor father used to have an invitation from him to shoot over his preserves every autumn .
i used to have a billet at coxon woodhouse 's , of draper 's gardens , but they were let in early in the spring through the venezuelan loan , as no doubt you remember , and came a nasty cropper .
he had spread out his big map of london and leaned eagerly over it .
address : carlton house terrace holdernesse hall , hallamshire carston castle , bangor , wales .
convinced that some tragedy had occurred , the coachman rushed to the door and strove to force it , while scream after scream issued from within .
the servant who had first entered had thrown up the window , or it would have been even more intolerable .
if you do , all will be in vain .
how is he ?
when he comes , he will advise us for the best .
we were in time to overtake the major before he reached the corner .
she must have been more than woman if she did not feel some uneasiness at the strange enterprise upon which we were embarking , yet her self control was perfect , and she readily answered the few additional questions which sherlock holmes put to her .
when do the servants go to bed ?
we 'll fix it up somehow or another .
never of mine , thank god !
if she can come to winchester to meet us she can get away .
at two o clock we will come again , and report to you anything which may have happened in the interval .
i pondered over our short conversation , however , and endeavoured to draw my deductions from it .
he wrote in greek upon the slate .
did i not tell you ?
it is not fair to ask it .
her employers had all been in excellent spirits lately , and she had never known them more cheerful and prosperous .
then , having left the door open behind him , he was leading the horse away over the moor , when he was either met or overtaken by the trainer .
it is very possible .
a canary 's cage was hanging in the window , and its aim seems to have been to get at the bird .
so unnerved was he at the sight that he leaned up against the wall with his hand to his throat to stifle his inclination to call out .
the mysterious one could understand english , even if he could not print it .
you never play billiards except with thurston .
when i think of getting her into trouble , i who would give my life just to bring one smile to her dear face , it 's that that turns my soul into water .
they are still there , mr holmes ,
it was a bright , crisp february morning , and the snow of the day before still lay deep upon the ground , shimmering brightly in the wintry sun .
le mauvais gout mene au crime .
it was in the private sitting room to which we afterwards repaired that holmes asked baskerville what were his intentions .
i was much astounded by this programme , though i remembered that holmes had said to stapleton on the night before that his visit would terminate next day .
but you have no notion as to what it could have been ?
she has been suffering since yesterday from brain symptoms of great severity .
as sir henry and i sat at breakfast the sunlight flooded in through the high mullioned windows , throwing watery patches of colour from the coats of arms which covered them .
about two in the morning , then , i was awakened by some sound in the house .
the escape must have also been made along that line , for of the two other exits from the room one was blocked by susan as she ran downstairs and the other leads straight to the professor 's bedroom .
so strange and so brief was the episode , that the watchers might have found it hard to believe it themselves or persuade other people of it , had it not been for the undeniable fact that the circlet of gold which marked her as having been a bride had disappeared .
as between two brothers of the lodge i should say that she was ,
to see sir henry .
i turned my lantern down the long , straight passage , and there was the fat man , running like the wind , with a smear of blood across his face , and close at his heels , bounding like a tiger , the great black bearded sikh , with a knife flashing in his hand .
your conduct has been most infamous .
this interview led to a violent scene in which he lost his life .
that will just show you how fond he was of me , mr holmes , and the little things that he would think of .
he was out on the lawn , in through the window , round the room , and up into the bedroom , for all the world like a dashing foxhound drawing a cover .
where are your wives ?
but that mycroft should break out in this erratic fashion !
you and your like have been the enemy of god and man in these parts .
i was never more earnest in my life .
the first sign of temper i have detected in you .
the press , watson , is a most valuable institution , if you only know how to use it .
no , i have never seen this face which you show me in the photograph .
kindly write upon it i am perfectly willing to act as business manager to the franco midland hardware company , limited , at a minimum salary of l . '
then , sir , prepare for war .
i am going out now .
alice is her name .
nothing appeared to be further from his intention .
jack has been lost overboard in gale off st .
that evening there came what seemed to me to be a grand release , for hudson told us that he was going to leave us .
we can scale the garden wall in this direction .
i preserve , too , and in the pheasant months i usually have a house party , so that it would not do to be short handed .
leaving susan with the body , she hurried to the professor 's room .
we even traced them as far as reading , but could get no farther , for they had covered their traces in a way that showed that they were very old hands .
mind you , she is a truthful woman , mr holmes , and whatever trouble there may have been in her past life it has been no fault of hers .
see now , i swear it !
and god help you if you fail !
last year i came up to london for the jubilee , and i stopped at a boarding house in russell square , because parker , the vicar of our parish , was staying in it .
cried the colonel .
a dog , i suppose .
sergeant tuson , of the city police , was somewhat surprised , therefore to see a gentleman with a carpet bag come down the steps at twenty minutes past one .
you 're a queer card , for sure ,
to forget it !
your native shrewdness , my dear watson , that innate cunning which is the delight of your friends , would surely prevent you from inclosing cipher and message in the same envelope .
his wicked lust for gold kindled at the news , and he bent her to his will .
what is this , perkins ?
two uniformed policemen sat inside .
he cried , stamping his stick .
certainly not .
cried the man with a loud laugh .
that coal black beard was in singular contrast to eyes were as bright as if he had a fever .
then i 'll wait in the open air , for i feel half choked , ' says he .
then i seemed to be floated peacefully away upon a soft sea of sound , until i found myself in dream land , with the sweet face of mary morstan looking down upon me .
let us walk along the cliffs together and search for flint arrows .
i thought of it by day and i nursed it by night .
lestrade began to laugh .
after you went to bed ?
i saw inspector stanley hopkins .
what is your particular line , mr harris ?
the marks are perfectly fresh .
the place was brilliantly lighted , and the huge , heavily gilt mirrors upon every wall reflected and multiplied the garish illumination .
you had the proper workhouse cough , and those weak legs of yours are worth ten pound a week .
i could see as he looked down that he was repressing some internal emotion .
well , there is the tower of the cathedral , and we shall soon learn all that miss hunter has to tell .
i 've had one or two little turns also with mr john clay , and i agree with you that he is at the head of his profession .
all would come round to me in due time .
if we can only find the man to put them on .
he handed me the very paper which i have here , watson , and this is the strange catechism to which each musgrave had to submit when he came to man 's estate .
what will he say when he returns ?
the big constable , very hot and penitent , sidled into the room .
that is very awkward .
nothing was found to implicate him in any way , and there the matter dropped .
and now , watson , this is too serious for dawdling , especially as the old man is aware that we are interesting ourselves in his affairs so if you are ready , we shall call a cab and drive to waterloo .
ah , that is only my wife , ' cried the commissionnaire ' has no one else passed ?
i may add that the papers were undoubtedly in the office during working hours on monday , and that sir james left for london about three o'clock taking his key with him .
five minutes later , three policemen had assembled in the hall .
no , sir i tell you he was in the loft .
there was the case of von bischoff at frankfort last year .
but the dining room which opened out of the hall was a place of shadow and gloom .
then i will .
your unknown friend .
there , sitting together in the twilight , i told holmes of my conversation with the lady .
they were drawn on six different banks .
he 'll be cut up over this , for the man has been in his service for years and was a good servant .
as to the release of the lady , it would appear that she has been locked in her room during the tragedy .
they had looked out of the window but the night was very dark and nothing could be seen or heard .
good heavens !
that is where we are going .
the idea was at least worth testing so with the help of ames , who admitted me to the room , and the crook of dr watson 's umbrella , i was able last night to fish up and inspect this bundle .
not reliable ones .
you do not know her , but she has a soul of steel .
of course , the meaning of this was obvious .
you do n't expect such energy from me , do you , sherlock ?
sit down , and tell me how you came alive out of that dreadful chasm .
meanwhile , come on , mcmurdo , and come quietly if you do n't want a gun across your head .
but the affair is a petty one , one of our little country crimes , which must seem too small for your attention , mr holmes , after this great international affair .
it is a cipher that dr watson and i have had occasion to solve .
once , and only once , he has been here .
how then ?
a cardboard box was inside , which was filled with coarse salt .
and one more this morning .
by a very heavy and sharp instrument .
one of the most remarkable characteristics of sherlock holmes was his power of throwing his brain out of action and switching all his thoughts on to lighter things whenever he had convinced himself that he could no longer work to advantage .
but i hear the rumble of wheels .
and how ?
he then sat in deep thought for a time , and i could see by his ruffled brow that this grim discovery had not , in his opinion , advanced us much in our inquiry .
thank you .
you are a private individual .
does lucy bear up well ?
he had heard also that sir charles was superstitious and had taken this grim legend very seriously .
finally he drove round to the charing cross telegraph office , sent off a message , and then , at last , we made for baker street once more .
as to you , sir , i trust that a bright future awaits you in rhodesia .
i thought , however , that before taking the final step i should like to submit the whole matter to your consideration .
where was the night constable ?
the man was seen ,
suggestive , watson , is it not ?
we knew him very intimately , for his favourite walk was over the moor to our house .
he put his two forefingers between his teeth and whistled shrilly a signal which was answered by a similar whistle from the distance , followed shortly by the rattle of wheels and the clink of horses ' hoofs .
there is less dust in this corner of the shelf than elsewhere .
but as the wise general chooses the moment of victory in which to redouble his efforts , so that his foes may have no time to steady themselves after disaster , so boss mcginty , looking out upon the scene of his operations with his brooding and malicious eyes , had devised a new attack upon those who opposed him .
then he laid the candle end upon the table and disappeared from our view into one of the corners .
i 've been on his track for years and have never set eyes on him yet .
any steps ?
it is of importance .
you had heard , ryder , of this blue stone of the countess of morcar 's ?
as he spoke two men came down the garden path , from round the angle of the house .
the key was not in the inner side of the door , nor could he find it anywhere in the room .
no doubt he would have told us so had his letter of explanation been written .
mrs hilton cubitt was seriously injured , and is at death 's door .
it was evident to all that i was in for a long illness , so joseph was bundled out of this cheery bedroom , and it was turned into a sick room for me .
it is clear enough that the hound has been laid on from some article of sir henry ' s the boot which was abstracted in the hotel , in all probability and so ran this man down .
did any see it after ?
they rushed out of the room , leaving the inspector , the colonel , and me staring at each other .
but the point is of curious interest .
surely the word must be ' come .
i could see that there were other questions which holmes would have wished to put , but the nobleman 's abrupt manner showed that the interview was at an end .
this business at coburg square is serious .
i waited , therefore but to my ever deepening disappointment i waited in vain .
at half wages , in fact .
you try yours and i will try mine .
one was theophilus johnson and family , of newcastle the other mrs oldmore and maid , of high lodge , alton .
i do n't believe he will ever come back .
he 's our man then .
i was too shaken to go to bed again , however , so i dressed , and as soon as it was daylight i slipped down , got a dog cart at the crown inn , which is opposite , and drove to leatherhead , from whence i have come on this morning with the one object of seeing you and asking your advice .
well , then , about that chasm .
it is a quarter sheet .
his heart leapt to his mouth , for this was none other than the great brigham young himself .
the markings were done in pencil , and ran in this way :
you look at these scattered houses , and you are impressed by their beauty .
she repeated , standing upon the rug and looking keenly down at him as he leaned back in a basket chair .
that is why i thought it best to summon this lady to your aid .
hullo !
our landlord was an intelligent man , and spoke excellent english , having served for three years as waiter at the grosvenor hotel in london .
the outer door would not open to our knock , and nothing more substantial than a torrent of bad language came from behind it .
well , i hope the pride and justification and the rest of it will come before we all get our death of cold ,
in the second case that of mortimer tregennis himself you cannot have forgotten the horrible stuffiness of the room when we arrived , though the servant had thrown open the window .
that he had any murderous intention ?
it was n't that i agreed with what you said .
since then i have been honoured by his confidence , which has not prevented most of his plans going subtly wrong and five of his best agents being in prison .
then we had the visit from our friends next morning , shadowed always by stapleton in the cab .
there is one thing occurs to me ,
i dropped off after this and slept soundly all night .
i could tell from his expression that he was on a hot scent , and yet i could not in the least imagine in what direction his inferences were leading him .
look out this window , watson .
there was a grumbling sound and a clanking and jarring of keys .
open this door !
no , i 'm bound to say i did not .
if you two will take the first hansom , watson and i will follow in the second .
what do they say of it ?
together they could protect each other , but singly they were at my mercy .
and you may consider yourself to have been very leniently dealt with .
you and i know that he died of sheer fright , and we know also what frightened him , but how are we to get twelve stolid jurymen to know it ?
what was the letter ?
precisely .
he understood that mr douglas was a rich gentleman who had made his money in america .
mr douglas was altering the pictures yesterday ,
what have three black fellows to do with our agreement ?
you can do what you will , but i must remain on guard .
that 's paying for brains , you see the american business principle .
sir eustace retired about half past ten .
the whisky bottle had passed round many times , and the men were flushed and ripe for mischief when their bodymaster rose once more to address them .
rather fine , watson , is it not ?
i explained my views last night to brother bartholomew : so we shall be expected , if not welcome , visitors .
she became restive , insisted upon her rights , and finally announced her positive intention of going to a certain ball .
all are asleep in the house .
there was a hush as he entered , and many a curious glance was cast at him but the relations between policemen and criminals are peculiar in some parts of the states , and mcginty himself , standing behind his counter , showed no surprise when the policeman enrolled himself among his customers .
at others he will with his own hands tear down some other man 's gate and declare that a path has existed there from time immemorial , defying the owner to prosecute him for trespass .
it turned me cold with horror , but my companion 's nerves seemed to be stronger than mine .
when we have got our man and you may be sure that i had his description on the wires within five minutes of hearing it we shall be better able to judge .
but i had my own experience for a guide since it had shown me the man himself standing upon the summit of the black tor .
it was a most unjustifiable action .
when i glanced again his face had resumed that red indian composure which had made so many regard him as a machine rather than a man .
the sleeper half turned , and then settled down once more into a deep slumber .
do you think that i would respond to such a trifle and yet be ignorant of his death ?
on reaching the end of the charlington grounds , he sprang from his machine and led it through a gap in the hedge , disappearing from my view .
i understand that you give me carte blanche to act for you , provided only that i get back the gems , and that you place no limit on the sum i may draw .
only that i insist upon your dining with us .
he had undoubtedly let himself down by the ivy , for we could see the marks of his feet where he had landed on the lawn .
i sat helpless and unhappy , staring into the fire .
you appeared to read a good deal upon her which was quite invisible to me ,
that would explain west 's conduct .
even the best of us are thrown off sometimes .
yes , sir but i confess i did not quite follow you .
but the bicycle ?
but how did you know me ?
have you been able to trace any connection between the missing boy and this german master ?
joseph harrison is my name , and as percy is to marry my sister annie i shall at least be a relation by marriage .
if you take me , hilton , you will take a woman who has nothing that she need be personally ashamed of , but you will have to be content with my word for it , and to allow me to be silent as to all that passed up to the time when i became yours .
here is a madman coming along .
he staggered back with a livid face , and i saw the perspiration break out upon his brow , while his teeth chattered in his head .
we have never gone out without keeping a sharp watch , and no one could have escaped our notice .
i 'll lay you a fiver , ' said i , ' that when he has my offer you 'll never so much as hear from him again .
did you correspond with him ?
i have not a doubt of it .
at holmes ' request i walked down the bank to the right , and he to the left , but i had not taken fifty paces before i heard him give a shout , and saw him waving his hand to me .
in the gladness of his heart he put his hands to his mouth and made the glen re echo to a loud halloo as a signal that he was coming .
for i knew that mr stapleton was a naturalist .
the whole history of the man came back to me in a flash .
there 's someone slipped in afore you .
then who could this american be , and why should he possess so much influence over her ?
it 's myself that would be sorry if it were needful to give you a lesson .
sherlock holmes hailed a four wheeler which was passing .
what is the young man 's own account of the matter ?
anyone might stay there or take a train without being observed .
i have done the lawn and the bicycle shed ,
the little girl continued .
there was , however , a plainness and simplicity about her costume which bore with it a suggestion of limited means .
i did not anticipate that you would yourself make use of this empty house and this convenient front window .
while we are on our way , mr mac , i will ask you to be good enough to tell me all about it .
i read the stock exchange list every morning .
i 've had no time , for it was only yesterday that i learned how matters stood .
no , sir , indeed i have not .
but you !
to dartmoor to king 's pyland .
you may be right .
he came over and stood in deep thought while the two professionals were examining the body .
is it like anyone you know ?
i never heard tell on him ,
i thought you had been dead this thirty years , henry , said she , in a shaking voice .
yes the inspector and i have made quite a little reconnaissance together .
where are you staying ?
we were simply there to observe and to draw inferences from our observations .
you are right ,
in the meantime ferrier having recovered from his privations , distinguished himself as a useful guide and an indefatigable hunter .
no doubt ,
i was still dressing in my bedroom next morning , when there was a tap at the door and holmes entered , a telegram in his hand .
but how to get to him in safety ?
i do n't want to argue about that .
in three days that is to say , on monday next matters will be ripe , and the professor , with all the principal members of his gang , will be in the hands of the police .
you are sketching out a theory by which everything they say from the beginning is false .
the torrent , swollen by the melting snow , plunges into a tremendous abyss , from which the spray rolls up like the smoke from a burning house .
it may have been hidden somewhere , and the pair gone off on foot .
and i , cried a dozen voices .
he entreated her to go back , and she answered him , but what she said could not be heard .
how do you know it was from the father ?
exactly .
he neither rode nor shot , but spent his days in wandering round the old village with his pipe in his mouth , or in driving with his host , or in his absence with his hostess , over the beautiful countryside .
nothing could be more natural than the sequence of events as narrated by this lady , and nothing stranger than the result when viewed , for instance , by mr lestrade of scotland yard .
the impression of his right foot was always less distinct than his left .
wait a bit , he is coming to the window once more .
he continued , glancing with curiosity at his stalwart , sunburned rescuers
he has been there for ten days , and neither mr warren , nor i , nor the girl has once set eyes upon him .
i do not know that there is anything else for me to explain .
there 's a detective on our trail .
but how did you know of this place , mr holmes ?
oh , it is clear enough .
john , cooped up in the valley , and absorbed in his work , had had little chance of learning the news of the outside world during the last twelve years .
there ,
well , at least he is fairly well to do .
blood .
holmes had brought with him the carpet slippers from the hall .
dawson had retired .
was there a secret marriage ?
he kept the key in his pocket , made his own bed , cleaned it himself , and allowed no other foot to cross the threshold .
barker was himself an undoubted englishman but by his remarks it was clear that he had first known douglas in america and had there lived on intimate terms with him .
pierrot .
there sat my friend at a little round table near the door of the garish italian restaurant .
i cannot see that there is anything very funny ,
holmes raised the hind leg of one of them and laughed aloud .
his expression , his manner , his very soul seemed to vary with every fresh part that he assumed .
i checked them and considered them and maybe added a few of my own .
the coachman saw him cross the hall and enter it .
the blinds are up .
nothing .
thank goodness , they are all safe under lock and key .
ah , hopkins , i got your wire last night , and i have been expecting you .
but if you have followed recent events so closely you must have read about lord st .
why , what on earth does this mean , john ?
so much for mr henry baker ,
well , if you really want to know , i got them from gelder co .
it was in vain that she protested and resisted .
mcmurdo laughed .
for this reason it was seldom that any one went into it , though now and again a party with torches might go exploring .
no sign could we see of the man whom we were chasing .
here are your reports , my dear fellow , and very well thumbed , i assure you .
he had seized ettie 's white hand between his own strong brown ones .
then she threw open a door which led into a bedroom , through the window of which the moon was shining brightly .
every morning i was there at ten , and every afternoon i left at two .
at least i might go the length of saying that there is some evidence that this may be so .
he snatched off the dark beard which had disguised him and threw it on the ground , disclosing a long , sallow , clean shaven face below it .
with trembling hands i undid my trunk , turned out the contents , and drew from the bottom my own hair .
the same dead silence still reigned all round .
the country detective chuckled .
now , gentleman of the jury , you have heard the evidence .
by heaven , i shall never forgive myself if she proves to have the heels of us !
sometimes he spent his day at the chemical laboratory , sometimes in the dissecting rooms , and occasionally in long walks , which appeared to take him into the lowest portions of the city .
mr windibank draws my interest every quarter and pays it over to mother , and i find that i can do pretty well with what i earn at typewriting .
the tin box must be returned to him , but , of course , the securities which peter carey has sold are lost forever .
you have come in by train this morning , i see .
now keep your eyes open in this crowd for your friends of last night , though i very much fear that they are a good hundred miles off by now .
two taps .
it was enough to drive a woman out of her wits , tied there , and her very dress spotted with him , but she never wanted courage , did miss mary fraser of adelaide and lady brackenstall of abbey grange has n't learned new ways .
well , some call them that , and some call them ichneumon ,
certainly , though i cannot guarantee that i carry all the facts in my mind .
come along , dr watson , and when the time comes we 'll all hope for a place in your book .
but , indeed , i have little doubt that we can build up a sufficient case without it .
then he threw a decanter at that maid , theresa wright there was trouble about that .
it has been in some points a singular case ,
joseph !
and if you ever put your foot over that threshold again ' here in an instant the smile hardened into a grin of rage , and he glared down at me with the face of a demon ' i 'll throw you to the mastiff .
which chair ?
what the deuce is he knocking at his own door for ?
but if you would fly with me , jack , we could take father with us and live forever far from the power of these wicked men .
he had a fine flow of language , and his adjectives were very vigorous .
my dear holmes !
a servant entered .
i had no serious difficulty in getting out of it , for the very simple reason that i never was in it .
for long ?
that 's an art which every detective should be an expert at .
i 'll have the other , and i 'll take it now , ' said i .
i am going far to screen you , lady hilda .
he continued as we skirted the cliffs together .
but what does it all mean ?
the first impression left by mrs lyons was one of extreme beauty .
before i go into the dining room , i should like to hear your experience .
well , i have no doubt that this small matter will fall into the same innocent category .
we shall wait here until your return .
so he went off cursing , like the foul mouthed blackguard that he was , and swearing that he would have her yet .
but if your husband is alive and able to write letters , why should he remain away from you ?
fairbank was a good sized square house of white stone , standing back a little from the road .
at first it was but a lurid spark upon the stone pavement .
i shall be as good as my word , mr holmes .
this is wanting in the police report , where more stress is laid , perhaps , upon the platitudes of the magistrate than upon the details , which to an observer contain the vital essence of the whole matter .
once or twice it seemed to me that he was on the point of telling me something .
it is a matter of history that secret history of a nation which is often so much more intimate and interesting than its public chronicles that oberstein , eager to complete the coup of his lifetime , came to the lure and was safely engulfed for fifteen years in a british prison .
moriarty ?
his broad black hat , his baggy trousers , his white tie , his sympathetic smile , and general look of peering and benevolent curiosity were such as mr john hare alone could have equalled .
but this man your friend has he any other person that he would be likely to write to ?
i was , as you can imagine , pretty down on my luck at this time , for i was a useless cripple though not yet in my twentieth year .
gradually , as time passed , his fears appeared to die away , and he had renewed his former habits , when a fresh event reduced him to the pitiable state of prostration in which he now lies .
the prime minister rose from the settee .
if you find you cannot , take my advice , my boy , and leave it to your deadliest enemy .
that is satisfactory so far as it goes ,
the first was from pondicherry , the second from dundee , and the third from london .
do n't ask him if he has done it .
we had only been a few hours in devonshire , and that he should give up an investigation which he had begun so brilliantly was quite incomprehensible to me .
i am very glad to have had your opinion , sir ,
but how about the disappearance of the others ?
i will never so much as breathe the same air with you again !
leaning back in the cab , this amateur bloodhound carolled away like a lark while i meditated upon the many sidedness of the human mind .
good night , gentlemen both ,
i see that you have read it since you have marked it .
prove it to me !
that is where he put his foot in getting out .
so i am .
no , sir , no it is as much as my place is worth to let him see me touch your money .
one of them snatched my firelock up and levelled it at my head , while the other held a great knife to my throat and swore between his teeth that he would plunge it into me if i moved a step .
holmes raised his eyebrows .
holmes had already wired to forbes , and we found him waiting to receive us a small , foxy man with a sharp but by no means amiable expression .
good bye !
they were lighting the lamps as i came back with the brandy .
suddenly there was the momentary gleam of a light up in the direction of the ventilator , which vanished immediately , but was succeeded by a strong smell of burning oil and heated metal .
he cried , sternly .
bear in mind , sir henry , one of the phrases in that queer old legend which dr mortimer has read to us , and avoid the moor in those hours of darkness when the powers of evil are exalted .
let us take it link by link .
give me the facts .
i should think they would be wiser to fight with allies than without them , but that is their own affair .
that 's a large question .
it was not very loud it seemed to be muffled .
why should any one murder a man in so clumsy a fashion as by hanging him ?
what charge , sir ?
he is sure ' confidence ' was as near as he could get to ' confident ' that it is pressing .
there is but one place where he can have fled ,
thank you , if i might have a glass of milk and a biscuit , i have no doubt that i should be better .
why , of course , now as long as we die we 'll be with mother again .
it was selfish , no doubt , disloyal , wrong , but i could realize nothing save that the golden barrier was gone from between us .
exactly .
after a glass or two of whisky he broached the object of his visit .
he was not studying medicine .
it shall be there .
his two eyes shone like stars , and his features were working convulsively .
if these men , as your father says , have done crime after crime in the valley , and if everyone knows them by name , how comes it that none are brought to justice ?
so cleverly was the colonel concealed that , even when the moriarty gang was broken up , we could not incriminate him .
what was i saying , watson ?
this little inn just opposite armstrong 's house is singularly adapted to our needs .
he lit the two candles which stood upon the mantelpiece , and then he proceeded to turn back the corner of the carpet in the neighborhood of the door .
ronald adair was fond of cards playing continually , but never for such stakes as would hurt him .
but it was essential that they should use it soon , as it might be discovered , or the bullion might be removed .
at the same time ,
my companion 's book and pipe lay by his chair , but he had disappeared .
his bed had been slept in .
excellent !
if he had been one there was no reason to believe that he had ceased to be .
did you become engaged then ?
holmes sat in silence in the cab as we drove back to baker street , and i knew from his drawn brows and keen face that his mind , like my own , was busy in endeavouring to frame some scheme into which all these strange and apparently disconnected episodes could be fitted .
to let the brain work without sufficient material is like racing an engine .
our client appeared to have taken fresh heart at the little glimpse of hope which had been presented to him , and he even broke into a desultory chat with me over his business affairs .
warned by the fate of the various victims , and knowing that he was marked down for destruction , chester wilcox had moved himself and his family only the day before to some safer and less known quarters , where a guard of police should watch over them .
i am going down the river and if i should see anything of the aurora i shall let him know that you are uneasy .
seldom goes out at other times , except when she sings .
the more outre and grotesque an incident is the more carefully it deserves to be examined , and the very point which appears to complicate a case is , when duly considered and scientifically handled , the one which is most likely to elucidate it .
and so should i , father ,
you can trust us to look after that , mr holmes ,
no , it 's not him yet .
my companion interrupted .
fleet street was choked with red headed folk , and pope 's court looked like a coster 's orange barrow .
it bore the mark of the hotel which we had just left , and was addressed to me by the landlord .
meaning that you saw none ?
that you get from the warning received through the man porlock .
indeed , it 's glad we are to see you , brother !
a setback ?
next morning , we had a note from miss smith , recounting shortly and accurately the very incidents which i had seen , but the pith of the letter lay in the postscript :
third right , fourth left ,
oh , then it is you , doctor ,
holmes disregarded the outstretched hand and looked at him with a face of granite .
in which , sir ?
and blew out the candle ?
but whom could he ask ?
a reference to the passenger list showed that miss fraser , of adelaide , with her maid had made the voyage in her .
he was aware that the bicycle would be described by the hotel people and be a clue against him so he left it there and made his way by some other means to london or to some safe hiding place which he had already arranged .
yes , my dear fellow , you may laugh , but i give you my word that i shall be very glad to have you back safe and sound in baker street once more .
what do you make of it yourself ?
phelps and i talked it over on our journey , but neither of us could devise a satisfactory reason for this new development .
you 've hit it there , pard ,
do you think that you could bring your friend mr holmes down to see me ?
so all life is a great chain , the nature of which is known whenever we are shown a single link of it .
there he sat on his veranda , drinking whiskey pegs and smoking cheroots , while the country was in a blaze about him .
not a shadow of one only surmise and conjecture .
i fear that we shall never again be easy in our minds at baskerville hall .
my mind filled with admiration for this extraordinary man .
the letter had , as i said , been burned and it was not all legible .
i have my old service revolver in my desk .
every effort should be made to find the secretary , stangerson , and to ascertain some particulars of the habits of the deceased .
he made no report of it at the time .
done in bullet pocks , i felt strongly that neither the atmosphere nor the appearance of our room was improved by it .
he was dressed in a dark suit with a cloth cap .
most modern .
holmes took a half sovereign from his pocket and played with it pensively .
it is just as well it does not .
i know it because i have seen with my own eyes the messenger who takes him his food .
the station master laughed heartily .
he had evidently been in his bed when the alarm had broken out , for he wore a foppish , embroidered nightshirt , and his bare feet projected from his trousers .
i 'll take particular care that you do n't club me with your wooden leg , whatever you may have done to the gentleman at the andaman isles .
rather an irregular proceeding ,
this done , we all went back to the treasure .
there cannot be the least doubt in the world that it has been written by two persons doing alternate words .
i took my things to a hotel in new street , and then i made my way to the address which had been given me .
but this is different .
it was best to get it over .
i really cannot tell ,
go to baker street at once ,
certainly , if you wish it .
if any visitor were to call asking for mrs hilton cubitt , no information should be given as to her condition , but he was to be shown at once into the drawing room .
he has been heard of in liverpool .
that in itself is enough to show us that the shoe had been drawn in that direction , and that the culprit had taken refuge there .
james and his father had many disagreements about me .
he is very angry with me for taking the course which has seemed right to me .
what else have you done ?
i am a methodical man , you see , and you never know what turn events might take afterwards .
not for a very long time , sir
her room was at the other end of the house , and she could hear nothing of what had passed .
when once i found them out i knew that i had them at my mercy .
you say that you saw it .
no doubt and yet it is not quite the way in which i should approach the case .
he had in his hand several sheets of a notebook , covered with scribbled writing here they are and he laid them on my table .
but here he comes , if i am not mistaken , to speak for himself .
i shall be happy to do anything that i can to serve you .
i had understood that every paper in the united states was writing about it .
it 's quite exciting ,
on entering his room i found holmes in animated conversation with two men , one of whom i recognised as peter jones , the official police agent , while the other was a long , thin , sad faced man , with a very shiny hat and oppressively respectable frock coat .
i had a heavy oak stick in my hand , and i tell you i saw red from the first but as i ran i got cunning , too , and hung back a little to see them without being seen .
there is something in what the fellow says about outdoor work ,
there , acushla , there !
that 's the third halt down the line .
whether you like it or not , i will examine your symptoms and treat you for them .
do n't waste a moment in getting started .
well , i went to underwood , and asked him if he had sold a hat of that size and description .
against the charge of killing mortimer tregennis .
there is arthur h .
because the ash had twice dropped from his cigar .
who is the gentleman with the telescope ?
he had fallen into a reverie , with the moss rose between his fingers .
look at the headlines : ' crime in the city .
my god , whoever would have thought that it could have come to this ?
it will be a great day when you bring us the news .
how , for example , could you describe with such confidence the wooden legged man ?
how on earth
for these three days neither food nor drink has passed his lips .
his name was a terror through all central america .
what you have said is safe with me but , by gar !
i confess that i should be interested to know who this mr cornelius may be with whom a retired builder has such very large transactions .
unless i can help you .
these devils would give me no rest so long as i was above ground but if they saw in the papers that baldwin had got his man , there would be an end of all my troubles .
i am to remain neutral , to get near the window , to watch you , and at the signal to throw in this object , then to raise the cry of fire , and to wait you at the corner of the street .
au revoir and good luck !
there is serious news this morning ,
my nerves thrilled with anticipation when at last the cold wind upon our faces and the dark , void spaces on either side of the narrow road told me that we were back upon the moor once again .
we were all eager by this time , even the policemen and stokers , who had a very vague idea of what was going forward .
now , in my opinion , dupin was a very inferior fellow .
now , i have here a watch which has recently come into my possession .
if you would engage a front room and purchase the necessaries for the night , i may have time to make a few inquiries .
it 's the old story .
it 's cost me two hundred pound from first to last , so it is n't likely i 'd give it up without gettin ' my wad .
he had foresight , but has less now than formerly , pointing to a moral retrogression , which , when taken with the decline of his fortunes , seems to indicate some evil influence , probably drink , at work upon him .
trust me again , and you will never have cause to regret it .
what is your own idea , then ?
but it seems probable enough , since the moment that mr soames 's back was turned , you released the man who was hiding in that bedroom .
his pulse was feeble and intermittent , but his breathing grew longer , and there was a little shivering of his eyelids , which showed a thin white slit of ball beneath .
the men drank their glasses , and the same ceremony was performed between baldwin and mcmurdo
is this mr melas , harold ?
we shall settle it now once and for all .
in the year my father , who was senior captain of his regiment , obtained twelve months ' leave and came home .
the child was a dear , and everything promised well .
i knew sir charles 's generosity , and i thought that if he heard the story from my own lips he would help me .
i suppose the local investigation was relaxed while this false clue was being followed up ?
therefore i blessed this mr overton whoever he might be , since he had come with his enigmatic message to break that dangerous calm which brought more peril to my friend than all the storms of his tempestuous life .
that brought out the first signs of grief that he had shown .
but what other is there ?
he had brought back much scientific information from south africa , and many a charming evening we have spent together discussing the comparative anatomy of the bushman and the hottentot .
he was bare headed , but he had a black coat thrown over his shoulder so that he could conceal his face in an instant if there were any alarm .
and when will you call ?
james was so overwhelmed with grief and agitation that my suspicions , which had never been entirely absent , rose instantly to a certainty , and i taxed him with the deed .
i grudge altamont nothing .
if i tell it , it will mean murder , for sure .
it was a smart little landau which rattled up to the door of briony lodge .
i am going right on .
holmes laughed .
the other day thursday , to be more exact dr mortimer lunched with us .
from a drop of water ,
you will excuse my troubling you , i am sure ,
holmes had a still more startling surprise for us , however , for , after accompanying us down to the station and seeing us into our carriage , he calmly announced that he had no intention of leaving woking .
we all sat in silence for some minutes while those fateful eyes still strained to pierce the veil .
those are the principal points about which i wished to be absolutely clear .
never .
then he crept to the door of the bedroom , and stood with slanting head listening intently .
you had best tell me all about it now , ' i said .
on the little plateau which crowned the barren hill there stood a single giant boulder , and against this boulder there lay a tall man , long bearded and hard featured , but of an excessive thinness .
geology .
she wished her hand had withered before she had done so .
of that i am certain .
it had struck me that it was possible that some love intrigue was on foot .
it is that this mystery comes to an end from now .
now you see the point about the handwriting .
unfortunately , madam , i had no possible alternative .
i have been married about a year .
she had pretty , coaxing ways , as you might say , and i thought there was no harm in letting her just put her head through the door .
it will be ready in half an hour .
if he waits a little longer he will get no price at all .
yes , i can see his shadow .
sherlock holmes had listened to this long narrative with an intentness which showed me that his interest was keenly aroused .
is that all clear ?
after all , if these people had strange fads and expected obedience on the most extraordinary matters , they were at least ready to pay for their eccentricity .
again and again i had registered a vow that i should deliver my soul upon the subject , but there was that in the cool , nonchalant air of my companion which made him the last man with whom one would care to take anything approaching to a liberty .
what is it ?
, london .
i understand that there was no sign of robbery ?
cried sherlock holmes , abruptly .
douglas had given him the impression that some danger was hanging over his head , and he had always looked upon his sudden departure from california , and also his renting a house in so quiet a place in england , as being connected with this peril .
and if you 've money , my son , and know how to handle it and spread it , you can do anything .
the porter was so scared that he was going to fetch me , but godfrey stopped him , had a drink of water , and pulled himself together .
my investigation seemed to be progressing .
whatever the cause , colonel moran began to go wrong .
no , no , i did not mean my husband .
we believe there has been a change from a town hospital to a country practice .
but , by the lord !
it is an inconceivable thing , but even our special war tax of fifty million , which one would think made our purpose as clear as if we had advertised it on the front page of the times , has not roused these people from their slumbers .
as we emerged from the sitting room a woman , who had been waiting in the passage , took a step forward and laid her hand upon the inspector 's sleeve .
undoubtedly it must .
and if i have , i am sure that i beg your pardon .
what of the rat , then ?
yes , sir there is another man upon the moor .
and now , on the top of this , comes the incident of the wineglasses .
they can say what they like , so long as i get you .
he cried .
i think that i have seen all that i wish in this house , and that my time may be more profitably employed elsewhere .
do n't you think so ?
can i do anything ?
interrupted his companion gravely , staring up at his grimy visage .
what would be the hours ?
holmes stood before us with the air of a conjurer who is performing a trick .
it was quarter past ten when she closed her book , fastened the shutters , and retired .
if there is an afternoon train to town , watson , i think we should do well to take it , as i have a chemical analysis of some interest to finish , and this investigation draws rapidly to a close .
then that , of course , accounts for my getting no answer ,
there is no other , but the papers must be those that are destroyed .
there still remained an arrest to be effected , but what were these commonplace rogues that he should soil his hands with them ?
i do not believe that the police credit me on my word , i do not ,
i hope that you have done what i asked you , jones ?
as i set it down again , after having examined it , my heart leaped to see that beneath it there lay a sheet of paper with writing upon it .
the lodge was a ruin of black granite and bared ribs of rafters , but facing it was a new building , half constructed , the first fruit of sir charles 's south african gold .
miss mary morstan ,
it 's for your own sake , watson ,
all the afternoon he sat in the stalls wrapped in the most perfect happiness , gently waving his long , thin fingers in time to the music , while his gently smiling face and his languid , dreamy eyes were as unlike those of holmes the sleuth hound , holmes the relentless , keen witted , ready handed criminal agent , as it was possible to conceive .
you did n't squirm when i shoved this gun at you .
i was marvelling in my own mind how i could possibly have overlooked so obvious a clue .
unique , perfectly unique , and yet why not ?
oh , yes you do , mcmurdo ,
if i can put the man into your hands you shall hear from me .
it is incredible , impossible , that it should really be outside the ordinary laws of nature .
you might have aimed high , if you had joined the fancy .
well , knowing as much as we do , it will be singular indeed if we fail to discover the rest .
this really grows outrageous , mr blessington ,
thus month after month his papers accumulated , until every corner of the room was stacked with bundles of manuscript which were on no account to be burned , and which could not be put away save by their owner .
how can you tell that ?
do we progress ?
even in the darkness he could recognize the outline of the cliffs which bounded it .
but beppo was condemned to a year 's imprisonment , and in the meanwhile his six busts were scattered over london .
you will n't put me alone into a cell , sir ?
if you bend your back and support yourself upon the wall , i think that i can manage .
it may be that you are not yourself luminous , but you are a conductor of light .
on my alighting there he turned the carriage , and dashed away again without so much as a look in my direction .
have you not tethered a young kid under a tree , lain above it with your rifle , and waited for the bait to bring up your tiger ?
the fish that you have tattooed immediately above your right wrist could only have been done in china .
failing any other indication , my researches must now take the direction of an inquiry at the bank for the gentleman who has cashed these checks .
on that side a ridge of rocks ended in a sheer cliff which overlooked a stone strewn slope .
to you they are like crimes committed in some other planet .
we helped him to a rock , where he sat shivering with his face buried in his hands .
you will find it useful at the trial .
sir henry was more pleased than surprised to see sherlock holmes , for he had for some days been expecting that recent events would bring him down from london .
i am not a fanciful person , but i give you my word that i seemed to hear moriarty 's voice screaming at me out of the abyss .
now , then , why did not jonathan small get the treasure himself ?
erected in the fifth year of the reign of james i , and standing upon the site of a much older building , the manor house of birlstone presents one of the finest surviving examples of the moated jacobean residence '
wonderful !
already you see i had reason to think that , if one of your three students was a man of unusual height , he was the most worth watching of the three .
such is the tale , my sons , of the coming of the hound which is said to have plagued the family so sorely ever since .
and you , mr white mason ?
my brother , sir james , was a man of very sensitive honour , and he could not survive such an affair .
when our friends left i at once followed them in the hopes of marking down their invisible attendant .
he could only suppose that the legend upon the placard had some reference to this secret society .
there was no wind that night , i understand ,
what is the thirteenth rule in the code of the sainted joseph smith ?
he was as you say .
for heaven 's sake help me !
cried carruthers , with a bitter laugh .
cried mr acton .
beside the driver there sat a man who could not have been more than thirty years of age , but whose massive head and resolute expression marked him as a leader .
glad to meet you , sir i have heard your name mentioned in connection with that of your friend .
my view of the case is confirmed .
sherlock holmes ' earnest demeanour had so far convinced us that we all sat in silence , watching the animal intently , and expecting some startling effect .
are you sure about this whistle and metallic sound ?
they had gagged me , and murillo twisted my arm round until i gave him the address .
and all because she will not find a beggarly sum which she could get by turning her diamonds into paste .
no more than was necessary for the purposes of our examination .
simon was decoyed away by flora millar , and that she , with confederates , no doubt , was responsible for her disappearance .
at london bridge , holmes wrote a telegram to his brother , which he handed to me before dispatching it .
a shadow passed over the gaunt face of the explorer .
at ten o clock tomorrow , dr mortimer , i will be much obliged to you if you will call upon me here , and it will be of help to me in my plans for the future if you will bring sir henry baskerville with you .
mrs st .
it could only have been the murderer , since neither the gardener nor anyone else had been there that morning , and the rain had only begun during the night .
it was too bad to spring it on you like this , but watson here will tell you that i never can resist a touch of the dramatic .
yes , she had let mr mcfarlane in at half past nine .
they looked out upon a croquet lawn which came up to the windows .
and you may expect us early in the afternoon .
i had something to do with dogs when i was out west , and i know one when i hear one .
tell us about cadogan west .
holmes whispered .
she could not have spoken to anyone when she was out , for she had been in the company of the bridegroom .
it was only after a painful and prolonged scene that she was ejected by the butler and the footman .
what was the object of the murderer , since robbery had no part in it ?
i did not say that i desired you to do it .
i should ,
your mission today has justified itself , and yet i could almost wish that you had not left his side .
the same thought occurred on the instant to us both .
cried the poor little man , throwing out his hands , and looking from one to the other of us .
and you are a benefactor of the race ,
the second is that the murdered man was heard to cry ' cooee !
but it did not lead very far .
do you say nothing has come out of that room absolutely nothing ?
i do n't think we have met before , councillor ?
they surely would not take a cab , or go off in a balloon .
not a word of news came for a year and more , so that i never doubted that frank was really dead .
in the distant hollow on the left , half hidden by the mist , the two thin towers of baskerville hall rose above the trees .
it was , at least , absolutely effective .
see here , watson !
he was essentially a man of action , however , and speedily recovered from his temporary impotence .
he is upstairs in bed .
if they fail , i have other resources but i shall try them first .
on his rigid face there stood an expression of horror , and as it seemed to me , of hatred , such as i have never seen upon human features .
she could never recover from such a humiliation .
he married beryl garcia , one of the beauties of costa rica , and , having purloined a considerable sum of public money , he changed his name to vandeleur and fled to england , where he established a school in the east of yorkshire .
then comes the discovery of the garret , and he is instantly informed of it .
it was clearly a dangerous quest .
it could not have been a better fit if i had been measured for it .
the furnaces roared , and the powerful engines whizzed and clanked , like a great metallic heart .
dear me , watson , is it possible that you have not penetrated the fact that the case hangs upon the missing dumb bell ?
is it by the police ?
well , it figures out that way , does it not ?
he observed .
and the work ?
because the document in question is of such immense importance that its publication might very easily i might almost say probably lead to european complications of the utmost moment .
i suppose ,
missing ,
on this particular evening , lestrade had spoken of the weather and the newspapers .
that mccarthy senior met his death from mccarthy junior and that all theories to the contrary are the merest moonshine .
his trained and experienced faculties were at once directed towards the detection of the criminals , with the gratifying result that the brother , thaddeus sholto , has already been arrested , together with the housekeeper , mrs bernstone , an indian butler named lal rao , and a porter , or gatekeeper , named mcmurdo .
i 'm not much of a story teller ,
capital !
he was james smith , who conducted the orchestra at the old imperial theatre .
she must have heard of the business the day before , since all croydon was ringing with it , and she alone could have understood for whom the packet was meant .
one other question .
vitus 's dance from which he suffered , had very much thinned it .
what time ?
holmes took a swift glance round , and then pounced upon a sodden bundle tied together with cord which lay where it had been thrust under the writing table .
i wrote two more articles and then , feeling more drowsy than ever , i rose and walked up and down the room to stretch my legs .
i saw him with a chair in his hand , a knife gleamed in hers .
he was seized before he could get farther , and his spectacles came tinkling down to mcmurdo 's feet .
the twilight had closed in and the moon was shining brightly in the sky before my narrative was finished .
however , i shall write two letters , which should settle the matter .
the situation was full of peril .
frequently .
i sat down in the darkness and unstrapped my wooden leg .
after i had graduated i continued to devote myself to research , occupying a minor position in king 's college hospital , and i was fortunate enough to excite considerable interest by my research into the pathology of catalepsy , and finally to win the bruce pinkerton prize and medal by the monograph on nervous lesions to which your friend has just alluded .
only one window showed a light behind them in it there stood a lamp , and beside it , seated at a table , was a dear old ruddy faced woman in a country cap .
i wired to gravesend and learned that she had passed some time ago , and as the wind is easterly i have no doubt that she is now past the goodwins and not very far from the isle of wight .
this gentleman speaks of footsteps in the grass , but , after all , it is easy to be mistaken on such a point .
it is impossible as i state it , and therefore i must in some respect have stated it wrong .
at the end of that time , however , his memory of his wrongs and his craving for revenge were quite as keen as on that memorable night when he had stood by john ferrier 's grave .
come back to this lady in a year , and may her future and yours justify us in the judgment which we have pronounced this night !
lucas opened it .
the man who entered was a sturdy , middle sized fellow , some thirty years of age , clean shaven , and sallow skinned , with a bland , insinuating manner , and a pair of wonderfully sharp and penetrating grey eyes .
to think that this should be the same hall in which for five hundred years my people have lived .
i thought you were the brokers , we have had some trouble with a tradesman .
i argued that the launch must be no great way off , in spite of its invisibility .
then i heard the step of mrs douglas , and i could not let her enter the room .
i am afraid , that in the pleasure of this conversation i am neglecting business of importance which awaits me elsewhere .
for how long , may i ask , do you want this sum ?
in an instant , without the least sound to warn us of his coming , the garden gate swung open , and a lithe , dark figure , as swift and active as an ape , rushed up the garden path .
i will let you know about it as soon as we come to any conclusion .
the fire was needed , but the lamp was lit as a comparison of the oil consumed will show long after it was broad daylight .
you see it was quite a simple case after all .
it may be that the solution of the one may prove to be the solution of the other .
therefore i am here to advise you this morning , and my advice to you is summed up in three words abandon the case .
well , you seem to have cross examined her pretty thoroughly .
after you left i sent down to stamford 's for the ordnance map of this portion of the moor , and my spirit has hovered over it all day .
i checked and corroborated all the facts which were mentioned at the inquest .
because during the last few nights i have always , about three in the morning , heard a low , clear whistle .
i shall sit in that room and see if its atmosphere brings me inspiration .
it was hard to believe that these were the same walls which loomed so gloomily through the fogs of winter .
he advised me to come to you .
i hesitated whether to attempt to secure the photograph at once but the coachman had come in , and as he was watching me narrowly it seemed safer to wait .
i see that you are professionally rather busy just now ,
he would see it through the ventilator .
i 'm glad to see you , mr baldwin ,
if any of you gentlemen have ever pined for a thing , and longed for it during twenty long years , and then suddenly found it within your reach , you would understand my feelings .
there is this butler , lal rao , whom we have not seen .
accustomed as i was to my friend 's amazing powers in the use of disguises , i had to look three times before i was certain that it was indeed he .
i made my report at the office ,
cartwright had come down with me , and in his disguise as a country boy he was of great assistance to me .
there we have the marine .
some chalk marks over the waistcoat pocket were the only signs of billiards which i could see in one of them .
he was afraid of his family unhappiness being dragged before the world .
sarah ,
give me something to ease my pain .
i could only move it slightly , and it was with the aid of one of the constables that i succeeded at last in carrying it to one side .
you 're only wasting your time , sir , and every minute now is of importance , ' cried the commissionnaire ' take my word for it that my old woman has nothing to do with it , and come down to the other end of the street .
that 's just about all that passed between us , as near as i can remember .
i could understand his regarding it as of small importance when i looked at it , for the metal was almost black and the stones lustreless and dull .
but i am so sure that he is innocent .
if the chief constructor of the navy desired to consult them , even he was forced to go to the woolwich office for the purpose .
it had escaped my memory .
mcginty clapped them both on the shoulders .
pocket edition of boccaccio 's ' decameron , ' with name of joseph stangerson upon the fly leaf .
on the contrary , this is the right side .
i had thought of a great office with shining tables and rows of clerks , such as i was used to , and i dare say i stared rather straight at the two deal chairs and one little table , which , with a ledger and a waste paper basket , made up the whole furniture .
curious , watson , very curious .
i hope that i have made myself clear ?
excuse me , my dear fellow ,
if the lady loves her husband , she does not love your majesty .
a smoker , mr holmes ?
the affair is a very tangled one .
black beams shot across above our heads , with a smoke darkened ceiling beyond them .
mcmurdo told him shortly what was intended .
colonel stark went up to her , whispered something in her ear , and then , pushing her back into the room from whence she had come , he walked towards me again with the lamp in his hand .
i pulled out my knife , and well , there !
and yet the more i thought of the lady 's face and of her manner the more i felt that something was being held back from me .
we are estranged , and i want to know why .
come along , doctor .
it was a queenly presence tall , graceful , and intensely womanly .
she was found badly wounded , by the side of her dead husband .
we had arrived before the doctor or the police , so that everything was absolutely undisturbed .
i described to him how , when according to his custom he was the first down , he perceived a strange horse wandering over the moor .
how very absurd !
quick , quick , we must think of some way !
were you on duty all day yesterday ?
good lord !
why , mary , your fortune depends upon the issue of this search .
she was engaged at the moment in hanging some curtains in the upstairs front bedroom .
i have been beaten four times three times by men , and once by a woman .
and , fortunately , we have no distance to go .
it has been a case of considerable interest ,
i thought that i was out of geese , but before i finish you 'll find that there is still one left in my shop .
he gave a shrill whistle , on which a street arab led across a four wheeler and opened the door .
i only know that he drove away with the gentleman in a carriage .
knowing what i did , was it not certain that colonel moran had done it ?
his method had the additional advantage that if they were to take a cab he was all ready to follow them .
his face fell immediately .
they know where he is , the rascals !
he was a different man from the limp and lounging figure in the mouse coloured dressing gown who had prowled so restlessly only a few hours before round the fog girt room .
williams , who drove you to night , was one of them .
none at all .
the father was away in search of his son .
then he turned to me , tapped his forehead three times , shook his head solemnly , and hurried away .
still at it , then ?
during my long and intimate acquaintance with mr sherlock holmes i had never heard him refer to his relations , and hardly ever to his own early life .
you have attained your end and have certainly chosen a particularly delicate moment for your intrusion .
i knew that none had fallen since the evening before , and also that there had been a strong frost to preserve impressions .
von bork pushed it back , and , leading the way , he clicked the switch of the electric light .
they use none .
as she swept silently into the room she impressed me with a greater sense of grief than the banker had done in the morning , and it was the more striking in her as she was evidently a woman of strong character , with immense capacity for self restraint .
you will see with your own eyes and judge for yourself .
now that you call it to my mind , ' he answered , ' brunton did ask me about the height of the tree some months ago , in connection with some little argument with the groom .
yes , sir
pinchin lane , down near the water 's edge at lambeth .
who was i ?
how long would it take him to do that , using every possible contraction ?
it was that of a bearded man , but the beard was short and bristled forward in a way very different from that of the captain .
i feel that i owe you a great many apologies for my abrupt departure yesterday , doctor ,
well , then , we will pass to this card v .
and then at last something made me suspect , and from that day my peace was gone forever .
far away on the path we saw sir henry looking back , his face white in the moonlight , his hands raised in horror , glaring helplessly at the frightful thing which was hunting him down .
here i rallied , and had already improved so far as to be able to walk about the wards , and even to bask a little upon the verandah , when i was struck down by enteric fever , that curse of our indian possessions .
no , sir i had a telegram .
where is miss violet smith ?
he had nothing on save only his trousers and shirt .
a straight whisky for the night is bitter ,
well , it 's the colleen inside of them that must settle the question for it 's outside the jurisdiction of a bodymaster and the lord be praised for that !
moulton , an american gentleman , had left only the day before , and on looking over the entries against him , i came upon the very items which i had seen in the duplicate bill .
i do n't see that i can be of any use to you , and you appear to have your case very clear .
he might have bought some at a wharf down the river .
in an instant holmes clapped a pistol to his head , and martin slipped the handcuffs over his wrists .
he 's been behaving very queerly , and he is very much excited .
that was his style of talk , and at first i thought it meant nothing but after a while , when he had tested me and sworn me in with all possible solemnity , he let me understand that there really was a plot to gain command of the vessel .
as i glanced at him i could not but think how on that very day he had complained bitterly of the commonplaceness of life .
this from hugo baskerville to his sons rodger and john , with instructions that they say nothing thereof to their sister elizabeth .
the firm does so when the security is good .
the face of stapleton had sprung out of the canvas .
but what harm can there be in that ?
this also you cleared up in a very effective way , though i had already come to the same conclusions from my own observations .
we both stared round at the window behind us upon which his gaze was fixed .
it is a considerable house , unfurnished , so far as i could judge , in the upper rooms oberstein lived there with a single valet , who was probably a confederate entirely in his confidence .
this is clapham junction , if i am not mistaken , and we shall be in victoria in less than ten minutes .
you are fatigued with your haste .
when we were left alone in the stone flagged kitchen , it was astonishing how rapidly that sprained ankle recovered .
you 'll just ask me anything that i do n't make clear .
i sent john , the coachman , to watch you , ran up stairs , got into my walking clothes , as i call them , and came down just as you departed .
and how would they bring about our destruction , mr standback ?
he 's in all right , mr holmes ,
yes , sir
the two lads who slept in the chaff cutting loft above the harness room were quickly aroused .
i was shaken but not hurt by the fall so i picked myself up and rushed off among the bushes as hard as i could run , for i understood that i was far from being out of danger yet .
how was it stepped ?
now , i found that one of them was lying on the floor , one was on the side table near the window , and the third was where i had left it .
he often had a wild way of talking , so that i thought little of what he said .
the little man stopped to relight his hookah and puffed thoughtfully for a few moments .
after that i came over , and , as letters were no use , i put my messages where she could read them .
he shrieked ,
he shrugged his shoulders in humorous deprecation of the state of things which he had himself done so much to produce .
and what is your conclusion ?
the fort is safe enough .
but if i have hit upon the true explanation of this one small phenomenon , then in an instant the case rises from the commonplace to the exceedingly remarkable , for it can only mean that lady brackenstall and her maid have deliberately lied to us , that not one word of their story is to be believed , that they have some very strong reason for covering the real criminal , and that we must construct our case for ourselves without any help from them .
come this way , if you please .
he cried , as he dragged him back .
after an excellent voyage the hotspur landed us at sydney , where evans and i changed our names and made our way to the diggings , where , among the crowds who were gathered from all nations , we had no difficulty in losing our former identities .
on the other hand , if all should go well which may kind god almighty grant !
i glared at the intrusive vicar with no very friendly eyes but holmes took his pipe from his lips and sat up in his chair like an old hound who hears the view halloa .
the man 's name was arthur cadogan west .
it means nothing to the message , but it might mean a good deal to us if we had no other means of discovering the sender .
it was simplicity itself .
his first thought was that the prostrate figure was that of some wounded or dying man , but as he watched it he saw it writhe along the ground and into the hall with the rapidity and noiselessness of a serpent .
undoubtedly so .
i never doubted that either .
neolithic man no date .
come , come , madam , it is useless .
pending the alterations , as i understand .
a little diplomacy was needed , but when holmes understood that the establishment was a bachelor one , and that he would be allowed the fullest freedom , he fell in with my plans and a week after our return from lyons we were under the colonel 's roof .
i shall call at half past ten to morrow if i do not inconvenience you .
no doubt .
how long did you stay ?
no , sir !
all right noon exactly ,
baldwin had to take the proffered hand for the baleful eye of the terrible boss was upon him .
i shall , however , preserve my former rule , and give the preference to those cases which derive their interest not so much from the brutality of the crime as from the ingenuity and dramatic quality of the solution .
he was , as the inspector had said , extremely dirty , but the grime which covered his face could not conceal its repulsive ugliness .
any success ?
from a dull murmur it swelled into a deep roar , and then sank back into a melancholy , throbbing murmur once again .
to meet a woman !
i had no orders about them from the master .
he took two swift steps to the whip , but before he could grasp it there was a wild clatter of steps upon the stairs , the heavy hall door banged , and from the window we could see mr james windibank running at the top of his speed down the road .
it was opened at once by someone very different from what he had expected .
my mary ?
i have it here and i will read it to you :
it was daylight before he returned from his reconnaissance .
they came up to the claim and wanted to know where he was .
it was at his table that i met some weeks ago a young fellow named garcia .
do you think he is hopeful ?
this case , i presume , contains the coronet .
the chamber was certainly large , and the way in which my feet sank into the carpet as i stepped across it told me of its richness .
the cunning dog has covered his tracks ,
he retained it in his hand after using it to set the hound upon the track .
la scala , hum !
but are you not afraid to leave the horse in his power now , since he has every interest in injuring it ?
and yet ,
with long bounds the huge black creature was leaping down the track , following hard upon the footsteps of our friend .
we found , however , as we advanced that this portion of the moor is intersected with soft patches , and , though we frequently lost sight of the track , we always succeeded in picking it up once more .
it was drifting slowly in our direction and banked itself up like a wall on that side of us , low but thick and well defined .
it is difficult to imagine , then , how an outsider could have made so terrible an impression upon the company , nor have we found any possible motive for so strange and elaborate an attempt .
local aid is always either worthless or else biassed .
the girl is young , and we would not have her wed grey hairs , neither would we deprive her of all choice .
knowing as much as you do , the situation is very easily explained .
besides this preliminary outlay , he must be prepared to keep himself for some years , and to hire a presentable carriage and horse .
if i go , by day or night , it 's you that must come with me !
holmes had missed him in london .
i have some papers here ,
a nice little brougham and a pair of beauties .
good night , dr trevelyan ,
are they blood stains , or mud stains , or rust stains , or fruit stains , or what are they ?
will call at : c .
i wonder what the fresh clue may be though it seems to be a stereotyped form whenever the police have made a blunder .
your duties , as far as the child is concerned , are very light .
the young man volunteered a statement , in which he said that after following drebber some time , the latter perceived him , and took a cab in order to get away from him .
what qualities have you , my friend , which would make your services so valuable ?
yes , i did .
my sister thinks that i am going mad .
do you think you could walk round the house with me ?
my respect for his powers of analysis increased wondrously .
what has he against me ?
i , at least , am not prepared to prevent you .
i came to baker street by the underground and hurried from there on foot , for the cabs go slowly through this snow .
when he was young he became a member of an aristocratic club , and there , having charming manners , he was soon the intimate of a number of men with long purses and expensive habits .
holmes 's cold and inexorable manner showed the secretary that it was useless to argue with him .
the young detective was in high spirits at his success .
it was there that he kept his hound and there also he had made preparations so that he might have a refuge .
no carriages or horses ?
but armstrong is not really a doctor in practice .
deduce what ?
god 's truth !
he sprang round , and i could see in the gas light that every vestige of colour had been driven from his face .
he struck a match on his boot and held it up against the wall .
i thought it best to change the topic .
cried boss mcginty at last .
it is then the interest of the enemies of this potentate to secure and publish this letter , so as to make a breach between his country and ours ?
a married woman grabs at her baby an unmarried one reaches for her jewel box .
naturally , i made some inquiries about the man .
you see me now when my name has become known far and wide , and when i am generally recognized both by the public and by the official force as being a final court of appeal in doubtful cases .
what are your terms ?
they laid me on a couch , i motioned for air , they were compelled to open the window , and you had your chance .
i left the house a little after eight o'clock this morning in the character of a groom out of work .
a mad , unreasoning terror rose up in me at the sight , mr holmes .
not a word .
i cannot blame you , mr holmes , for having refused to speak more freely , and you on your side will not , i am sure , think the worse of me because i desire , even against his will , to share my husband 's anxieties .
the young man rushed up and demanded to know what we were about to do with the papers .
i was just going to propose it .
do you see ?
how dared i offer her attentions which were distasteful to her ?
i must go home now , for dad is very ill , and he misses me so if i leave him .
when we had fled to america gennaro thought that he had cast it all off forever .
he was simply what the porter described as a medium looking chap , a man of fifty , beard grizzled , pale face , quietly dressed .
yet it could hardly have been scuttled to hide their traces , though that always remained as a possible hypothesis if all else failed .
yes , but you would not have me leave it a dishonoured man ,
it goes to the housekeeper 's room .
but it did seem very loud .
i was instantly aroused , and , with the two footmen , started off at once in search of the missing girl .
i will look into this matter ,
i have done nothing actionable from the first , but as long as you keep that door locked you lay yourself open to an action for assault and illegal constraint .
would you be afraid to sleep in the same room with a lunatic , a man with softening of the brain , an idiot whose mind has lost its grip ?
how did you know , for example , that i did manual labour .
he cried ,
well , this morning he had not gone ten paces down the road when two men came up behind him , threw a coat over his head , and bundled him into a cab that was beside the curb .
dr watson , mr sherlock holmes ,
you 're earlier than i had thought .
you left your door open ?
out of this hiding place he drew that little cylinder of paper , pushed down the board , rearranged the carpet , blew out the candles , and walked straight into my arms as i stood waiting for him outside the window .
she came out and helped the man to hand down our bags .
sir , i am pleased to meet you .
near the door i saw the gleam of an electric switch , but it was unnecessary , even if it had been safe , to turn it on .
you knew him at that time ?
over the fireplace was a magnificent trophy of weapons , one of which had been used on that tragic night .
but mr fowler being a persevering man , as a good seaman should be , blockaded the house , and having met you succeeded by certain arguments , metallic or otherwise , in convincing you that your interests were the same as his .
our blinds were half drawn , and holmes lay curled upon the sofa , reading and re reading a letter which he had received by the morning post .
you have also , no doubt , remarked that miss cushing has cut the cord with a scissors , as can be seen by the double fray on each side .
the doctor knelt beside him and held down the hand lamp which had stood on the table .
holmes and the inspector led us round it until we came to the side gate , which is separated by a stretch of garden from the hedge which lines the road .
it was simply a ruse to divert inquiry into a wrong channel .
i ask you not merely because my friend dr watson has not heard the opening part but also because the peculiar nature of the story makes me anxious to have every possible detail from your lips .
staunton , the rising young forger ,
but beware of what ?
technically , no doubt , but practically not .
i suppose , then , if you have never heard of godfrey staunton , you do n't know cyril overton either ?
one white arm and hand drooped over the side of the chair , and her whole pose and figure spoke of an absorbing melancholy .
it was a six foot wall which barred our path , but he sprang to the top and over .
as to the arrest of john mitton , the valet , it was a council of despair as an alternative to absolute inaction .
as to the adjectives , i said , if i remember right , amiable , unambitious , and absent minded .
capsules with hundreds of bright little seeds in each , out of which will spring the wise , better england of the future .
he was dressed in the seedy frockcoat of the book merchant , but the rest of that individual lay in a pile of white hair and old books upon the table .
i lived in that farm , where i had a room down below , and could get in and out every night , and no one the wiser .
he had no rival ?
i ended by finding it .
as it happens , he spoke of coming into town to day upon some most important business .
such a nice young man to look at !
now , it opened into a broad space in which stood two of those great stones , still to be seen there , which were set by certain forgotten peoples in the days of old .
our highest assurance of the goodness of providence seems to me to rest in the flowers .
the elder to whose care the two waifs had been committed , led them to his waggon , where a meal was already awaiting them .
there are three who may be said to be the heads of their profession .
he seemed to have been watching the clock as well as i , for it was hardly six before he began to talk with the same feverish animation as before .
a more docile , simple folk could not be imagined .
for heaven 's sake , go easy !
i quite follow you ,
then i must begin ,
as a proof i will tell you some of the facts upon which my conclusions are based .
if we go ourselves , the message might come in our absence , and delay be caused .
i have one of my baker street boys mounting guard over him who would stick to him like a burr , go where he might .
it was a sight to see cecil barker 's expressive face during this exposition of the great detective .
you evidently do n't know me , ' said he .
what 's that ?
we advance , but the goal is afar .
that you gather , no doubt , from the h .
when i had got so far in my list i threw it into the fire in despair .
that 's for a jury to decide ,
lestrade looked startled .
one fact which has not been explained is the statement of barrymore that his master 's footprints altered their character from the time that he passed the moor gate , and that he appeared from thence onward to have been walking upon his toes .
well , i started from the fact that mr douglas had seemed disturbed since the day before , when he had been at tunbridge wells .
oh , jack , jack , he will hurt you !
you might have gained your sergeant 's stripes last night .
and yet that would involve treachery towards the mistress to whom this woman seems devoted .
but about a month ago , at the end of june , i saw for the first time signs of trouble .
i have had one or two little scores of my own to settle with mr john clay ,
it occurred to me at the time .
since nearly ten weeks have elapsed , then , and nothing has been heard , it is not unfair to suppose that for some reason the treaty has not reached them .
we shall just be in time to have a little breakfast with him .
my dear mr sherlock holmes , you really did it very well .
it is not too much to say that peace or war may hang upon the issue .
on the margin was written , in holmes 's precise hand :
i think , watson , that you have put on seven and a half pounds since i saw you .
that is not the way of criminals .
i know you could if you only would .
when a crisis comes , as it will do , i will direct how you shall act .
do you think that i should intrude if i were to call this afternoon and make the acquaintance of sir henry ?
holmes grasped the doctor 's hand .
on what charge do you expect to be arrested ?
an opera hat was pushed to the back of his head , and an evening dress shirt front gleamed out through his open overcoat .
i would come to you abroad , but it would excite remark if i left the country at present .
his grace is surprised , dr huxtable , that you should have taken such a step without consulting him .
come , watson , i fancy that we may employ ourselves more profitably at home .
cried baldwin .
the point under discussion was , how far any singular gift in an individual was due to his ancestry and how far to his own early training .
he was a long chap , with a red face , the lower
he had handed me the key , and with a happy thought i took it with me lest he should lock himself in .
they are all family portraits , i presume ?
well , at least i knew that if brunton could do it , i could also .
is it , then , stretching our inference too far to say that the presentation was on the occasion of the change ?
he has written to me to say that he would be here at six .
at his command she consented to pass as his sister , though he found the limits of his power over her when he endeavoured to make her the direct accessory to murder .
if the husband 's name was james , and the other was henry , what was this talk about david ?
the young man had apparently fallen out of the train and killed himself .
we know now why stapleton looked with disfavour upon his sister 's suitor even when that suitor was so eligible a one as sir henry .
she has nursed me by day and a hired nurse has looked after me by night , for in my mad fits i was capable of anything .
tonga had brought all his earthly possessions with him , his arms and his gods .
he gasped .
for some months jefferson hope lingered among the mountains , leading a strange wild life , and nursing in his heart the fierce desire for vengeance which possessed him .
that is excellent .
it seems rather sad that his relatives should allow him to come out alone .
simon and his wedding ?
you can tell your employer , lord mount james , that i do not wish to have anything to do either with him or with his agents .
sure , your father is after giving me notice ,
however , as you have been a long time in the family , i have no wish to bring public disgrace upon you .
in san francisco , a year ago .
we were shown into the morning room .
i objected .
however , in the morning i determined to have a look at it anyhow , so i bought a penny bottle of ink , and with a quill pen , and seven sheets of foolscap paper , i started off for pope 's court .
but this is my special hobby , and the differences are equally obvious .
with that i offered in as many words to marry her , but before she could answer , down came this brother of hers , running at us with a face on him like a madman .
oh , yes , mr holmes .
slowly and solemnly he was borne into briony lodge and laid out in the principal room , while i still observed the proceedings from my post by the window .
this is awful !
lady st .
the other winced as he read the menace in his eyes .
no one knew .
yes , thief !
a remarkable wine , watson .
do you know where we are ?
if you run against him well , you must n't , that 's all !
on the inspector of constabulary informing him that he was a prisoner , he remarked that he was not surprised to hear it , and that it was no more than his deserts .
if you do , then all my earnest efforts to avoid a scandal will be frustrated .
where was the sun ?
even my wish for revenge would not make me do that .
today , for example , its surface was broken by a very unexpected ripple , which has caused our friend considerable perplexity and annoyance .
it was simple enough , sir , if you only had known , but , with all your cleverness , it was impossible that you could know .
let us hide him away , and who is the wiser ?
cried lestrade .
you must confine yourself to your room , on pretence of a headache , when your stepfather comes back .
neville .
he has an extraordinary faculty for figures , and audits the books in some of the government departments .
he surmised my secret , and has presumed ever since upon the claim which he has upon me , and upon his power of provoking a scandal which would be abhorrent to me .
lecoq was a miserable bungler ,
he had filled the form with stuff that might have been chinese , for all we could make of it .
she hurried from the room as impulsively as she had entered , and we heard the wheels of her carriage rattle off down the street .
the professor blew a cloud from his lips .
i 'm fainting i 'm gone !
it is certainly rather a curious production ,
mcmurdo turned and saw that one of the policemen had shifted in his seat and was staring out into the fiery waste .
one was a woman , our client , drooping and faint , a handkerchief round her mouth .
in an instant we swept the boat 's head round again and pulled with all our strength for the place where the haze still trailing over the water marked the scene of this catastrophe .
up to now you may have spoken the truth , but now i know that you have lied .
he chucked it down into a corner and helped himself to a cup of tea .
but if it were the maids , why should your son allow himself to be accused in their place ?
i have here in front of me these singular productions , at which one might smile , had they not proved themselves to be the forerunners of so terrible a tragedy .
if we wait a little , watson , i do n't doubt that the affair will grow more intelligible .
i 'm quick to quarrel and quick to forgive .
the fugitive sprang out , but his stump instantly sank its whole length into the sodden soil .
then the strong , soothing hand of the austere maid drew her head down on to the cushion , and the wild anger died away into passionate sobbing .
one day the professor was lecturing on poisions , and he showed his students some alkaloid , as he called it , which he had extracted from some south american arrow poison , and which was so powerful that the least grain meant instant death .
when shall you be able to enter upon your new duties ?
observed holmes .
inspector macdonald smiled , and his eyelid quivered as he glanced towards me .
he had been uneasy during all our journey from town , and i had observed that he had turned over the morning papers with anxious attention , but now this sudden realization of his worst fears left him in a blank melancholy .
i seldom come in contact with the rough crowd .
there was certainly no physical injury of any kind .
this is most interesting ,
i will endeavour , in my statement , to avoid such terms as would serve to limit the events to any particular place , or give a clue as to the people concerned .
i am , of course , familiar with the contents of these letters .
my husband is as nervous over it as i am , but he is out at his work all day , while i get no rest from it .
we have a good working basis , however , on which to start .
come , come ,
as it is , they are likely enough to leave , but as long as they think they are perfectly safe they will be in no hurry .
but you have seen a good deal of her since .
yet , being a careful man , he made such plans that , come what might , half at least of his treasure should be left to him .
jefferson hope looked wildly round to see if there was a second grave , but there was no sign of one .
see here , mister ,
do try to bring him down , and as soon as possible .
besides he is not a traitor .
it has the requisite number of pages .
i do not know what i could do without her .
i dare say it was by some such device that poor savage , who stood between this monster and a reversion , was done to death .
we passed the pretty cottage where the murdered man had lived , and walked up an oak lined avenue to the fine old queen anne house , which bears the date of malplaquet upon the lintel of the door .
mr harding , of harding brothers , said that they had sold you their last copy , and he gave me your address .
finally , if he did not throw the substance into the fire at the moment of leaving the room , who did do so ?
it was no wonder that it had not been swept away by the tide .
we 'll have a good look at him , if we can do no more .
yes , sir he posted seven letters to day .
i thought i had squeezed all the juice out of it , but i see there was a little over ,
it was lit within by slits under the eaves .
the front door was open , and figures were rushing down the drive .
that cold , incisive , ironical voice could belong to but one man in all the world .
let me see it .
on the ledge of rock above this strange couple there stood three solemn buzzards , who , at the sight of the new comers uttered raucous screams of disappointment and flapped sullenly away .
come again next night with a more useful tool .
that was what the county coroner asked me at the inquiry .
let us for a moment consider the difficulties which stand in the way .
he told me that it would hurt his self respect that any other man should find the money for such an object , and that though he was a poor man himself he would devote his last penny to removing the obstacles which divided us .
on the contrary ,
however , let us see what jim browner has to say for himself .
pretty sort o treatment this !
i am coming to be of the same opinion , miss cushing ,
but now we have to prove the connection between the man and the beast .
you can read it yourself .
i think you 'll own he did it smartly .
the young imp cannot be found ,
the man stood blinking at us with the dazed look of one who comes from the dark into the light .
baldwin was still stooping over his victim , putting in a short , vicious blow whenever he could see a part exposed , when mcmurdo dashed up the stair and pushed him back .
yes , of course i should have knocked .
the chief dead , cadogan west dead , our papers stolen .
no , sir no more than you have .
i knew him ,
the heavy , white face was seamed with lines of trouble , the hanging pouches under the closed eyes were leaden in colour , the loose mouth drooped dolorously at the corners , the rolling chins were unshaven .
it has left an impression which can never be effaced from my mind .
it is true that i had a country walk on thursday and came home in a dreadful mess , but as i have changed my clothes i can n't imagine how you deduce it .
i promise you that i shall not use it unless it is absolutely needed .
finally , he sprang down with an ejaculation of satisfaction .
dear me !
it was in a city of russia , a university i will not name the place .
well , a cheetah is just a big cat , and yet a saucer of milk does not go very far in satisfying its wants , i daresay .
i will not trust it to the post , nor will i take anything but gold or notes .
shouted mr windibank , turning white to his lips and glancing about him like a rat in a trap .
there , framed in the doorway , was a tall and beautiful woman the mysterious lodger of bloomsbury .
miss morstan and i stood together , and her hand was in mine .
our quest is practically finished .
yet i have a vague impression that as i ran forward something lay upon the ground to the left of me .
there is a tangle here which needs straightening out .
as i entered i saw , it is true , an unwonted tidiness , but the old landmarks were all in their place .
that would explain his persistence , would it not ?
no explanation save mental aberration can cover the facts .
then i carefully paced off five to the east and two to the south .
the young swiss had gone too .
i think , with your permission , i will now take a stroll round the premises .
formerly st bangalore pioneers .
a strange thing for a man to carry with him upon a rough expedition , especially as it would not shut in his pocket .
the horrors they had dealt out to others had been so much a part of their settled lives that the thought of retribution had become a remote one , and so seemed the more startling now that it came so closely upon them .
he still retained , however , the jaunty gallantry of his speech .
halfway down this walk there is a gate which leads out on to the moor .
i saw by the baronet 's clouded brow that he was deeply hurt by what he regarded as our desertion .
a reference to his books showed that hundreds of casts had been taken from a marble copy of devine 's head of napoleon , but that the three which had been sent to morse hudson a year or so before had been half of a batch of six , the other three being sent to harding brothers , of kensington .
he pushed the bartender out and closed the door on him .
godspeed .
he claims that the power of producing and appreciating it existed among the human race long before the power of speech was arrived at .
the thief or the murderer could roam london on such a day as the tiger does the jungle , unseen until he pounces , and then evident only to his victim .
an attack of brain fever , for example ?
you must come and see us .
well , madam , unless it is set right it may certainly have a very unfortunate effect .
no , certainly not .
well , sir henry , i am of one mind with you as to the advisability of your going down to devonshire without delay .
you see , it is n't like any ordinary convict .
that will do !
absolutely .
in this way my second link was formed , which told me that the nocturnal visitors were two in number , one remarkable for his height as i calculated from the length of his stride , and the other fashionably dressed , to judge from the small and elegant impression left by his boots .
now a pawnbroker 's business is mostly done of an evening , mr holmes , especially thursday and friday evening , which is just before pay day so it would suit me very well to earn a little in the mornings .
his intention had been to be absent a year at the most , but a combination of unforeseen circumstances prevented his leaving the mines for nearly five .
one moment ,
undoubtedly it is blood .
an eley 's no .
mr blessington came in from his walk shortly afterwards , but i did not say anything to him upon the subject , for , to tell the truth , i have got in the way of late of holding as little communication with him as possible .
i fear that watson and i must go to london .
mycroft lodges in pall mall , and he walks round the corner into whitehall every morning and back every evening .
i have left everything in statu quo until i hear from you .
i had your note about an hour ago , and i have come , though i really do not know why i should obey your summons .
just as you wish , mr holmes , so long as we get our man .
this was how it came about .
night had now fallen , and the flames of the frequent furnaces were roaring and leaping in the darkness .
only once did they meet anyone , and then they managed to slip into a field , and so avoid recognition .
this grows serious ,
i had a map beside me though , and when once i had spotted the principal hotels and stations , i got on pretty well .
american exchange , strand to be left till called for .
what do you make of that ?
why , that 's true , sir ,
yet , in spite of his shabby and even absurd appearance , his voice had a sharp crackle , and his manner a quick intensity which commanded attention .
the inspector had stopped suddenly , and was staring with a look of absolute amazement at a paper upon the table .
pray let us have it , for all that .
of course you must .
today we mean to communicate to the princetown people where they should look for their missing man , but it is hard lines that we have not actually had the triumph of bringing him back as our own prisoner .
with his brutal and violent nature , others would have to pay the price if we held our hands .
even the knowledge that he had succeeded where the police of three countries had failed , and that he had outmanoeuvred at every point the most accomplished swindler in europe , was insufficient to rouse him from his nervous prostration .
i was able to refer him to two parallel cases , the one at riga in , and the other at st .
well , mrs st .
i knelt beside him for some minutes , and then made my way to mr turner 's lodge keeper , his house being the nearest , to ask for assistance .
half an hour more or less can make no difference to you , and the gentleman was about to give us an account of this very interesting affair , which might aid us in clearing it up .
holmes thought for a little , and then a curious smile played over his face .
had it been raining all evening ?
nothing of the kind .
maybe he 'll get a sniff of danger ,
but the professor was fenced round with safeguards so cunningly devised that , do what i would , it seemed impossible to get evidence which would convict in a court of law .
yes , it was a queer thing to do .
i can take more than that ,
it is so ,
he is learned in old manorial and communal rights , and he applies his knowledge sometimes in favour of the villagers of fernworthy and sometimes against them , so that he is periodically either carried in triumph down the village street or else burned in effigy , according to his latest exploit .
besides , the door never opened , or i would have heard it .
the mark which he was examining began upon the brass work on the right hand side of the keyhole , and extended for about four inches , where it had scratched the varnish from the surface .
that 's a kneller , i 'll swear , that lady in the blue silk over yonder , and the stout gentleman with the wig ought to be a reynolds .
now , watson , we will light our lamp we will , however , take the precaution to open our window to avoid the premature decease of two deserving members of society , and you will seat yourself near that open window in an armchair unless , like a sensible man , you determine to have nothing to do with the affair .
so you sent the letters to my husband , and he the noblest gentleman that ever lived , a man whose boots i was never worthy to lace he broke his gallant heart and died .
i found the ash of a cigar , which my special knowledge of tobacco ashes enables me to pronounce as an indian cigar .
the landscape is a genuine corot , and , though a connoisseur might perhaps throw a doubt upon that salvator rosa , there cannot be the least question about the bouguereau .
the aurora , sir
one thing led to another , and then with that dagger so handy the end soon came .
you 're right , mr holmes .
it is to gain light upon the purpose of this telegram that we are now upon our way to cambridge .
and now and now i am myself a branded thief , without ever having touched the wealth for which i sold my character .
this murder would have been infinitely more difficult to unravel had the body of the victim been simply found lying in the roadway without any of those outr and sensational accompaniments which have rendered it remarkable .
none save my partner with his family and an occasional friend of arthur 's .
he was led now into an outer room by two solemn brothers .
i have spoken to no one .
short as the two snips are , you can distinctly see the same slight curve in each .
there were two rough haired , unkempt horses in the tumble down stable .
it was broken by mycroft holmes .
ryder instantly gave the alarm , and horner was arrested the same evening but the stone could not be found either upon his person or in his rooms catherine cusack , maid to the countess , deposed to having heard ryder 's cry of dismay on discovering the robbery , and to having rushed into the room , where she found matters as described by the last witness .
what are you doing here , barrymore ?
you have , no doubt , described the sequence of events correctly , but there is one point which you have left unexplained .
that is a very useful accomplishment , and a very easy one , but people do not practise it much .
the violent and causeless excitement , followed by this brutality of speech , so far removed from his usual suavity , showed me how deep was the disorganization of his mind .
the string was of the quality which is used by sail makers aboard ship , and at once a whiff of the sea was perceptible in our investigation .
pray , let me have the details , ' i cried .
it will be verified or disproved at the trial .
getting back was comparatively simple .
what are you loitering there for ?
he will do well .
so far i could follow their actions as if i had actually seen them .
there had been one contretemps for a man and his wife had driven up while they were still emptying their revolvers into the silent body .
and the catalepsy ?
maybe mine were not as good gold as his , but they looked as well and were cheaper to make .
the despotism and hatred of liberalism which animated the continental governments had had the effect of driving to our shores a number of men who might have made excellent citizens were they not soured by the recollection of all that they had undergone .
besides , mr holmes , i have laid my hand upon my man .
with a tiger spring he turned on her , and his right hand was feeling for her throat .
i observed the very instant that i entered the room that you have a portrait group of three ladies upon the mantelpiece , one of whom is undoubtedly yourself , while the others are so exceedingly like you that there could be no doubt of the relationship .
i was recalled to myself by a frantic plucking at my wrist , and i found myself lying upon the stone floor of a narrow corridor , while a woman bent over me and tugged at me with her left hand , while she held a candle in her right .
you have , no doubt , already formed your conclusions from the newspapers ,
however , there 's no good grieving over it .
the fact is that a very singular train of events has occurred recently at my house in brook street , and to night they came to such a head that i felt it was quite impossible for me to wait another hour before asking for your advice and assistance .
but now , before we part , i want you to write a note to mr barker .
he cried at last , waving his hand towards the rain lashed window which faced the moor .
i am not a very good man , effie , but i think that i am a better one than you have given me credit for being .
we caught the one clear glimpse of it , and then the match flickered and went out , even as the hope had gone out of our souls .
i had been warned against you months ago .
only that at the beginning but you are to have an overriding commission of one per cent on all business done by your agents , and you may take my word for it that this will come to more than your salary .
well , either that boot comes back before sundown or i 'll see the manager and tell him that i go right straight out of this hotel .
it was my part after we had discovered in the transformed henderson the fallen despot , to attach myself to his household and keep the others in touch with his movements .
i next called upon madame charpentier ,
this american had started from london when he was young , and he wanted to do the old town a good turn .
it would be to your advantage as well as mine if i might leave the house for five minutes .
we can only wait .
exactly .
i was about to assure miss cushing that i was convinced that a mistake had been made when you may remember that i came suddenly to a stop .
they could not trust me with the job .
what do you think ? said he .
i determined at the time that when i had my chance , my gentlemen should each have a draw out of one of these boxes , while i ate the pill that remained .
that was how i earned the agra treasure and you talk to me of justice because i cannot bear to feel that i have paid this price only that another may enjoy it !
but what is our hypothesis ?
he lives at the lodge with his mother , and as he was a very faithful fellow we imagine that he walked up to the house with the intention of seeing that all was right there .
what would holmes say to this ?
the man married a woman very much older than himself for her money ,
it is a subject to which i have devoted some little attention .
it is certainly a most extraordinary thing .
i confess that i was very much surprised at it ,
we have touched on three english counties in our short drive , starting in middlesex , passing over an angle of surrey , and ending in kent .
you have been up to the scene of the crime , i understand ,
at the sight of these newcomers our client had sprung from his seat and stood very erect , with his eyes cast down and his hand thrust into the breast of his frock coat , a picture of offended dignity .
suggested mr joseph harrison .
there was one man at the rudder , one to tend the engines , and two burly police inspectors forward .
too late !
the mother was at home a little , fluffy , blue eyed person , in a tremor of fear and indignation .
if it were a seaman , it could only be a seaman who had been with him on the sea unicorn .
this is no suicide , mr lanner .
he sank his face onto his arms and began to sob in a high treble key .
please await me .
good heaven !
i then put myself in the place of small , and looked at it as a man of his capacity would .
he has been idling all this term , and he must look forward with dread to the examination .
and yet the problem should be capable of ultimate solution .
it is there that i shall seek it .
his hands were raised , and he seemed to be settling his necktie .
familiar as i was with my friend 's methods , it was not difficult for me to follow his deductions , and to observe the untidiness of attire , the sheaf of legal papers , the watch charm , and the breathing which had prompted them .
i am so delighted that you have come ,
i was well aware that nothing but business of importance would have brought him to me at such an hour , so i waited patiently until he should come round to it .
i am no official agent .
it was some minutes before he spoke .
he always apologized to me for putting me to this inconvenience .
a very clear statement said holmes ,
i picked up my hat and my heaviest stick , but i observed that holmes took his revolver from his drawer and slipped it into his pocket .
if you have never worn them , why did you put them out to be cleaned ?
i must repeat the question .
responded holmes .
he held out his hand , and i saw in the light of the lamp that two of his knuckles were burst and bleeding .
he whispered .
quite so , it is perfectly possible .
as he stepped up to the cab , he pulled a gold watch from his pocket and looked at it earnestly , ' drive like the devil , ' he shouted , ' first to gross hankey 's in regent street , and then to the church of st .
you might tell them at briarbrae that i hope to be back to morrow night ,
it was not a time to stand upon ceremony .
holmes opened the case , and moistening his finger he passed it along the shoe .
he was a strange little ferret like man , with white eyelashes , and when i looked up at him i found his keen gray eyes fixed upon me with an amused expression .
i should like to have a glance round .
only last night did i form my views of the case .
to night .
that was in the inclosed official report .
it was clamped to the floor .
an examination of his betting book shows that bets to the amount of five thousand pounds had been registered by him against the favorite .
as he came up to me i made out that he was a railway porter .
we met next day as he had arranged , and inspected the rooms at no .
a minute later a carriage and engine could be seen flying along the open curve which leads to the station .
i am all off colour .
he was a man of singular habits , shunning company and very seldom going out .
when cunningham saw that the case against him was so strong he lost all heart and made a clean breast of everything .
athelney jones proved to be a sociable soul in his hours of relaxation , and faced his dinner with the air of a bon vivant .
and how much was the residue ?
i ran frantically up the stair and along the passage .
when my daughter summons you , you can come , but until then i do n't want to see your faces again .
hold it to his head .
i have a tracing which will make it complete .
my dear fellow ,
it is a case of taking the man .
had it been carried down from any neighbouring street , it must have passed the station barriers , where a collector is always standing .
for a long time he gazed upward at it , and then in an attempt to get nearer to it he rested his knee upon a wooden bracket on the wall .
i am going to force my way in and see for myself who is in the house .
i think i will muzzle him and chain him all right if you will give me your help .
pray do so .
i could not imagine a more complete case .
as he spoke , he whipped a tape measure and a large round magnifying glass from his pocket .
the man 's face became openly defiant .
we must be wary for a while , if we are to get the information which we want .
there has been no better case within my recollection .
two in two days , and many more , perhaps , for they get in the way of going there in the dry weather and never know the difference until the mire has them in its clutches .
i cried .
two taps .
it 's pretty maddening to think that an important secret may lie here on this slip of paper , and that it is beyond human power to penetrate it .
why a cut off shotgun of all weapons and an american one at that ?
clair , then it is obvious that no crime has been committed , and that , therefore , i am illegally detained .
well , well , do n't trouble to answer .
he picked out from his bundle a copy of the local herefordshire paper , and having turned down the sheet he pointed out the paragraph in which the unfortunate young man had given his own statement of what had occurred .
i heard nothing ,
it was a dreadful sight which met us as we entered the bedroom door .
and yet , when we closed our door on monday evening , we were as efficient an office as any in the government service .
you see the whole thing is a chain of logical sequences without a break or flaw .
at the same time , i was very much surprised when i heard you two gentlemen come back this morning and learned that you had been chasing selden .
let 's have it straight , now .
many a man , however vindictive , would have abandoned all thought of revenge in the face of such a difficulty , but jefferson hope never faltered for a moment .
very good ,
i went to the house agents , you know , and they said that mr garcia 's rent was paid up all right and that everything was in order at wisteria lodge .
if i know anything o that young man , he 'll be back here with a speed that would whip electro telegraphs .
my photograph .
i was certain that alec had torn it out of the dead man 's hand , and almost certain that he must have thrust it into the pocket of his dressing gown .
turn which way he would , there appeared to be no avoiding the blow which hung over him .
the whole incident left a most ugly impression upon my mind , and i was not sorry next day to leave donnithorpe behind me , for i felt that my presence must be a source of embarrassment to my friend .
i can assure you , mr holmes ,
then he burst into a bitter laugh .
how else can we explain her frenzied anxiety that her second one should not enter it ?
yes , her father brought her over for this last london season .
five to four against silver blaze !
that 's well ,
i shall be all anxiety .
you have not a pistol , have you ?
at last i fairly lost my temper .
there can n't be any number of injuns here ,
he is in the artillery .
will meet the seven o'clock train , and will take no steps until you arrive .
were you engaged to the gentleman at this time ?
after that , as you know , there can be no bad blood between us .
we know the place , and we know the code so surely our task should be simple .
half in my dreams i was dimly conscious that something was going on in the room , and gradually became aware that my wife had dressed herself and was slipping on her mantle and her bonnet .
oh , you did , did you ?
his clothes , his watch , and even his money were in his room , but the black suit which he usually wore was missing .
it 's a big thing for a man to have to understand and to decide at one sitting .
i found that i had my man , so i came home and changed my clothes .
there could be no question , however , that someone had passed along the grass border which lines the path , and that he had done so in order to avoid leaving a track .
he was clad only in a pink dressing gown , which covered his night clothes .
the third on the right is his ,
i cried .
he declares that he heard cries but is unable to state from what direction they came .
my dear chap , i 'm overjoyed to see you .
would she not have made an admirable queen ?
good by , wood .
his age may not have been more than three or four and thirty , but his haggard expression and unhealthy hue told of a life which has sapped his strength and robbed him of his youth .
pondicherry lodge stood in its own grounds , and was girt round with a very high stone wall topped with broken glass .
oh , yes , mother is alive and well .
why did n't you go down yesterday ?
it was a very large and high chamber , with carved oak ceiling , oaken panelling , and a fine array of deer 's heads and ancient weapons around the walls .
there was the footprint of the hound beside him as he lay .
there was a long silence , broken only by his heavy breathing and by the measured tapping of sherlock holmes ' finger tips upon the edge of the table .
outside the sun was sinking low and the west was blazing with scarlet and gold .
but i do n't see him .
it was as if fate had placed him in my way that i might pay my debt before i left the island .
the murder was done with it .
i came down to see if my coffee was ready .
what could be more hopelessly prosaic and material ?
a fine weight he was , too , for all that he was so short .
there is vacillation in his k 's and self esteem in his capitals .
sharp at the hour named inspector stanley hopkins appeared , and we sat down together to the excellent breakfast which mrs hudson had prepared .
our party is complete ,
to the right and some distance back from the road was the timber yard which had been the scene of the fire .
no , thank goodness , she did not .
opposite her stood a brutal , heavy faced , red moustached young man , his gaitered legs parted wide , one arm akimbo , the other waving a riding crop , his whole attitude suggestive of triumphant bravado .
smell it , toby , smell it !
the fact is , your grace ,
but at any rate i have shown , have i not , that there is a certain element of improbability about the lady 's story ?
to tell the truth , my desire to fetch a doctor had somewhat weakened , for poor holmes was so obviously delirious that it seemed dangerous to leave him .
i guessed i 'd fight through it all right on my own , my luck was a proverb in the states about ' .
he chuckled and rubbed his hands when we found ourselves in the street once more .
i agree with you that complete frankness , however painful it may be to me , is the best policy in this desperate situation to which james 's folly and jealousy have reduced us .
you will remember that on hearing the sound of the quarrel she descended and returned with the other servants .
cried the inspector .
he 's simply the hinge that the whole team turns on .
for ten days we were beating about , trusting to luck , and on the eleventh we were picked up by a trader which was going from singapore to jiddah with a cargo of malay pilgrims they were a rum crowd , and tonga and i soon managed to settle down among them .
i do not wish to make a mystery ,
they sat with their profiles towards me on either side of the round table .
do help me , mr holmes .
we had all sat absorbed , listening to his extraordinary narrative .
he was so hot that i think he would have thrashed drebber with his cudgel , only that the cur staggered away down the road as fast as his legs would carry him .
well , well , the point is a minor one , and when you have randall you will probably find no difficulty in securing his accomplice .
every precaution is still necessary ,
there 's one thing i ought to tell you before i go further .
a couple of days later major sholto was strolling on the beach : so i took the chance of speaking to him .
we will go back to the note which was handed in to garcia upon the evening of his death .
there are one or two small points which i should desire to clear up before i go ,
and under them the number were rudely scrawled in ink upon it .
i have no doubt , for example , that the fernworthy people will burn me in effigy tonight .
while she is thus engaged , young willoughby smith enters the room .
whoever would have thought that poncho would have been so scared by a lot of cows ?
can we help you , mr holmes ?
as you say , we know them , and it is little that they can do .
the vicar knew .
the inspector opened his eyes , and the colonel 's lip curled in a sneer .
we will confine ourselves for the present with your permission to this very interesting document , which must have been put together and posted yesterday evening .
i was at a loss what to say or what to do , and before i had made up my mind he picked up his cane and was gone .
i could see that the problem was entirely to his heart .
i have never been a very rich man , mr holmes never made but one investment in my life , as dr trevelyan would tell you .
i could not bear to risk that such a thought should cross her mind .
or that mrs smith has put us on a wrong scent .
i thought so much of our visit that the paper never entered my head for an instant .
cried blessington , in a breaking voice .
it will be our fault if we are not there to receive him .
footmarks of both men could be made out on the carpet , but none of any third person , which again is a trick for the other side .
whimsical and bizarre conceits of this kind are common enough in the annals of crime , and usually afford valuable indications as to the criminal .
now , you would call it a guess , no doubt , but i am almost certain that this address has been written in a hotel .
it suits my purpose .
it is a very cold scent upon which the metropolitan expert is generally asked to run .
i 'll chance it ,
he was trying to utter the name of his murderer .
you blackguard !
exceedingly so .
i was born in posilippo , near naples ,
holmes tossed it in among the blazing papers .
we had to pay a large sum to hush the matter up .
that is the whole truth , as i am an honest christian woman and you will see that if there is blame in the matter it does not lie with my husband but with me , for whose sake he has done all that he has .
now , i add this small quantity of blood to a litre of water .
we got on them before they could load , and they stood to it like men but we had the upper hand of them , and in five minutes it was all over .
we succeeded in our object at a cost which both the specialist and dr mortimer assure me will be a temporary one .
it would be of the greatest use to me to have them .
no one .
up to half past ten the servants were moving about the house so it was certainly not before that time .
a little after six .
he was the more noticed as being the only friend of the past unknown life of mr douglas who was ever seen in his new english surroundings .
there lies our problem .
it was only by putting our helm hard down that we avoided a collision , and before we could round them and recover our way the aurora had gained a good two hundred yards .
indeed , it becomes not simpler but stranger .
this child 's disposition is abnormally cruel , merely for cruelty 's sake , and whether he derives this from his smiling father , as i should suspect , or from his mother , it bodes evil for the poor girl who is in their power .
sherlock holmes still sat exactly as i had left him , save that he had laid aside his violin and was deep in a book .
i 'll plunge into the matter without further preamble .
you do n't find your fancy kind o lessening for this chap , do you ?
it is very rough , of course , and it only deals with the points which seem to me to be essential .
it is rather an absurd business , this ritual of ours , ' he answered .
come at once .
george 's , hanover square , was a very quiet one , no one being present save the father of the bride , mr aloysius doran , the duchess of balmoral , lord backwater , lord eustace and lady clara st .
let me introduce you to mr merryweather , who is to be our companion in to night 's adventure .
with a spud , a tin box , and an elementary book on botany , there are instructive days to be spent .
running from what ?
the net begins to close upon him .
captain morstan showed me his name among a list of passengers in one of the mail boats very shortly afterwards .
he 's not got blood enough to go in for felony with impunity .
i really think we have enough to go before a jury .
there was no one in the room .
my dear young lady !
there are swift flowing rivers which dash through jagged ca ons and there are enormous plains , which in winter are white with snow , and in summer are grey with the saline alkali dust .
we had best carry our breakfast with us , for he is making an early start .
my dear watson ,
i cried .
when he saw my white face he gave a little chirrup of joy and came running up towards me .
this mattered the less to her , as she was retiring by disposition , and very much absorbed , to all appearance , in her husband and her domestic duties .
tell him to come in the morning if he really must see me .
why not tell them of the cornish horror strangest case i have handled .
there can be no doubt of it .
the pearls were evidently of great value , and he was averse to part with them , for , between friends , my brother was himself a little inclined to my father 's fault .
my experience of camp life in afghanistan had at least had the effect of making me a prompt and ready traveller .
as far as i have heard it is impossible for me to say whether the present case is an instance of crime or not , but the course of events is certainly among the most singular that i have ever listened to .
so you despair of arresting the murderer of poor straker ,
the name is no doubt familiar to you .
i do n't think i have had the pleasure of seeing you since you favoured me with those attentions as i lay on the ledge above the reichenbach fall .
these could only be at the top of the building .
think of her appearance , watson her manner , her suppressed excitement , her restlessness , her tenacity in asking questions .
madam derbyshire had somewhat expensive tastes ,
look out !
well , if i were to tell you all the adventures that my little chum and i went through , you would not thank me , for i would have you here until the sun was shining .
i must have been unconscious for a few minutes , for when i came to myself , i found that they had torn down the bell rope , and had secured me tightly to the oaken chair which stands at the head of the dining table .
and yet it may seem a small matter in itself .
her features turned perfectly livid .
the watchers from the plain below could see them flit from rock to rock until their figures stood out against the skyline .
from that moment their man was doomed .
it is indorsed ' mr and mrs vandeleur , ' but you will have no difficulty in recognizing him , and her also , if you know her by sight .
that is an oath that i can put my hand to my heart and swear that i have never broken .
two thousand five hundred pounds was the amount , but i can only touch the interest .
those were scraps of her conversation , ending in a sudden dreadful cry in the man 's voice , with a crash , and a piercing scream from the woman .
the prayer finished , they resumed their seat in the shadow of the boulder until the child fell asleep , nestling upon the broad breast of her protector .
it was evident to me that he was becoming uneasy , and that his plans were not working out altogether as he had hoped .
have you a clue ?
that is one point .
my dear watson , you as a medical man are continually gaining light as to the tendencies of a child by the study of the parents .
it was a fine apartment in which we found ourselves , large , lofty , and heavily raftered with huge baulks of age blackened oak .
we must make our start at once ,
what should i have done ?
i do n't think i 'll get that cry out of my head .
anything else ?
with his long , white , nervous fingers he adjusted the delicate needle , and rolled back his left shirt cuff .
his dangerous correspondence has been destroyed or removed .
pray take a chair .
i 've made inquiry .
give me food ,
my inquiries show beyond all question that the family portrait did not lie , and that this fellow was indeed a baskerville .
d'you see ?
there is only one provision which i must make .
she had risen , but she fell back again with a little cry of pain .
i assure you that the most winning woman i ever knew was hanged for poisoning three little children for their insurance money , and the most repellant man of my acquaintance is a philanthropist who has spent nearly a quarter of a million upon the london poor .
and you are sure that this is your husband 's hand ?
it was an empty house , and so he knew that he would not be disturbed in the garden .
it was , then , in the spring of the year that holmes 's iron constitution showed some symptoms of giving way in the face of constant hard work of a most exacting kind , aggravated , perhaps , by occasional indiscretions of his own .
what 's the matter , walters ?
i will do just what you say .
we must leave you now ,
then we turned our steps towards this ill omened house in which they had met their strange fate .
gilchrist pointed to bannister .
i am sorry , but the fact is that the duke is far from well .
he had risen and paced the room as he spoke .
it may be remembered that after my marriage , and my subsequent start in private practice , the very intimate relations which had existed between holmes and myself became to some extent modified .
my friend leaned a little forward and his expression became intent .
for that matter , reading , and possibly other large towns , were within that radius , so the place might not be so secluded , after all .
mcmurdo explained .
do n't you think it may be a little premature ?
ay , the white lamb , she might well be surprised when she read death on a face that had seldom looked anything but love upon her before .
then he paid up his two guineas , like a good one , and away he went into the station .
there is a room which is used as a morning room at lachine .
and how deceptive appearances may be , to be sure !
precisely what i do n't want you to do .
there was no furniture of any sort , and the accumulated dust of years lay thick upon the floor .
do n't blame me .
there is no mystery , my dear madam ,
when i did so , my screams brought the maid to my assistance .
he repeated .
quite so .
he walked into the dining room as we sat after dinner , and announced his intention in the thick voice of a half drunken man .
the situation must be faced .
on one occasion he actually seized her in his arms and embraced her an outrage which caused his own secretary to reproach him for his unmanly conduct .
i think that this should do ,
his face was bent downward , his shoulders bowed , his lips compressed , and the veins stood out like whipcord in his long , sinewy neck .
what d'you want to frighten a chap for ?
that 's a strange thing ,
in a few words mcmurdo explained his business .
i thank god that he is dead !
holmes took a bundle of papers from his pocket .
i suppose there are few people living within driving distance of this whom you do not know ?
she shot her arms out from her sleeves , and we saw with horror that they were all mottled with bruises .
then i 'll tell our story right away ,
thus i had made certain of the hound , and had guessed at the criminal before ever we went to the west country .
this has been done ,
and why why ?
if you show us what is wrong we shall soon set it right ourselves .
i think that this case is very much in your line .
you will remember , watson , how the dreadful business of the abernetty family was first brought to my notice by the depth which the parsley had sunk into the butter upon a hot day .
his drawn brows and the deep furrow between them showed that he needed no exhortation to concentrate all his attention upon a problem which , apart from the tremendous interests involved must appeal so directly to his love of the complex and the unusual .
when i put that with the voice and figure being the same , and only those things altered which might be changed by a razor or a wig , i could not doubt that it was the same man .
he is here .
at the cunningham 's sir !
we were shut up in bhurtee , the regiment of us with half a battery of artillery , a company of sikhs , and a lot of civilians and women folk .
i had , as you know , cut off my hair in london , and i had placed it in a great coil at the bottom of my trunk .
he had a military carriage , however , and regulation side whiskers .
one other thing , lestrade ,
but i abhor the dull routine of existence .
do you feel equal to it ?
you are not quite in possession of the facts yet ,
stevenson is fast enough , but he could n't drop from the twenty five line , and a three quarter who can n't either punt or drop is n't worth a place for pace alone .
if you could step downstairs with us , we may each be able to give some light to the other upon this miserable affair .
there was this dreadful man , woodley , if you can call him an admirer .
and yet it was clear from his actions that he thought more seriously of this new intrusion than his words would show .
i saw him stoop and strain until with a sharp crash it flew open .
throw the door open , officer ,
but we will n't talk of it .
a little too much so .
my view of the case is the correct one .
he has been waiting for a gentleman for two days .
what a blind beetle i have been , not to draw my conclusion .
oh , officer , do let me have a peep !
, , grimpen , dartmoor , devon .
there is a watercourse across the moor .
he was flaxen haired and handsome , in a washed out negative fashion , with frightened blue eyes , and a clean shaven face , with a weak , sensitive mouth .
dear me !
who is your district ruler ?
at any rate , it was there , and i was keenly on the lookout for any chance to pass the forbidden door .
there only remained an envelope with some small newspaper slips inside it .
i had every reason to suppose that this abe slaney was an american , since abe is an american contraction , and since a letter from america had been the starting point of all the trouble .
already a few loiterers had begun to collect in the street .
you entered by the window .
we shall have time for a mouthful of dinner before we need go .
is it discreet ?
not a bite .
that 's good enough .
you have shown your relish for it by the enthusiasm which has prompted you to chronicle , and , if you will excuse my saying so , somewhat to embellish so many of my own little adventures .
he 'd had the quinsy and swollen glands when he was young , he told me , and it had left him with a weak throat , and a hesitating , whispering fashion of speech .
what sort of men ?
when i reached coombe tracey i told perkins to put up the horses , and i made inquiries for the lady whom i had come to interrogate .
married !
it is a case , my dear watson , where the law is as dangerous to us as the criminals are .
he is asleep ,
she smiled back at me , closed my door , and a few moments later i heard her key turn in the lock .
then there is the singular fact that he did not break it in the house , or immediately outside the house , if to break it was his sole object .
my first thought was that i should be by sir henry 's side .
we drove back to help the young lady .
a young lady for you , sir ,
you have lost one of your boots , you say ?
both of your lamps were lit , of course ?
the lady 's , on the other hand , were most bitter , and when she raised her voice could be plainly heard .
what are you doing there ?
good heavens , holmes !
that it was usually raised at sunset .
leave the room at once as you came , and i will say no more .
but you shall know , victor .
i will sit here and i will watch you die .
chimed in lestrade .
but you have found out something for yourself ?
that 's about the size of it .
good afternoon , lestrade !
he saw that he was followed , no doubt , and used this means of giving me the slip .
he thought for a little , and then he cried out that he had it .
so the bud blossomed into a flower , and the year which saw her father the richest of the farmers left her as fair a specimen of american girlhood as could be found in the whole pacific slope .
with all the will in the world , i could never have followed up a clue which has taxed even his analytical genius .
what more is to be said ?
it is true that her face was pale and drawn , like that of one who has endured a great shock but her manner was composed , and the finely moulded hand which she rested upon the edge of the table was as steady as my own .
very good , ames .
well , what if i am ?
unemployed .
engage a special .
oh , if i could only have plucked them out today .
that would be about his time for hanging himself .
i was confined to the house by a severe chill for three days last week .
quite so .
cried holmes , with a heavy hand upon my shoulder .
with your permission i will read it to you .
do you reckon he knows much ?
what have i to put up against that ?
there is ever a flaw , however , in the best laid of human plans , and the murderers of john openshaw were never to receive the orange pips which would show them that another , as cunning and as resolute as themselves , was upon their track .
since four o clock .
then your eyes ceased to pucker , but you continued to look across , and your face was thoughtful .
a door which faced that which led into the quarters of the tollers opened into this suite , but it was invariably locked .
but to tell the truth , sir , we were both very much attached to sir charles , and his death gave us a shock and made these surroundings very painful to us .
i cannot , jack , i cannot , ' she cried .
and why not norwood ?
you will n't stop for dinner ?
for an instant i imagined that i had left my own there , but on feeling in my pocket i found that it was all right .
therefore , he foresaw what he would do .
watson , a bucket of water over the straw .
it was only last night that i was looking over my old notes , and classifying some of our past results .
i put them both outside my door last night , and there was only one in the morning .
mrs porter may be eliminated .
because he could not find it in print .
then had you not better consult him ?
carefully as i examined every fact connected with his death , i was unable to find anything which could suggest the idea of murder .
get out of this !
i must admit both your points ,
we must bear in mind that oberstein has gone to the continent to dispose of his booty , but not with any idea of flight for he had no reason to fear a warrant , and the idea of an amateur domiciliary visit would certainly never occur to him .
ten years with sir charles chandos as solid as a rock .
i tell you that the cloud of murder hangs thicker and lower than that over the heads of the people .
everybody about here speaks of his kindness to him .
i was in diggings out hampstead way , potter 's terrace .
every evening , at the same hour , he walked into the consulting room , examined the books , put down five and three pence for every guinea that i had earned , and carried the rest off to the strong box in his own room .
what happened , then ?
i cried , with some heat .
what has caused it ?
i saw a great yellow face , coarse grained and greasy , with heavy , double chin , and two sullen , menacing gray eyes which glared at me from under tufted and sandy brows .
it was the echo for the day , and the paragraph to which he pointed was devoted to the case in question .
the unknown might be lurking there , or he might be prowling on the moor .
i hardly consider that a conclusive proof .
we could prove nothing against him .
in that case , you can give us no further information .
as he leaned back in his chair in the familiar attitude i knew that the case was hopeless .
be off , or you may find a dog at your heels .
i 'd come after you , jack .
that was the impression that i had , and i moved quickly forwards to get a nearer view of the person who was watching me .
it was the devil , holmes , ' he cried .
kiss it and make it well ,
look at this !
what 's in here ?
halloa !
holmes rubbed his hands , and his eyes glistened .
the salesman nodded and shot a questioning glance at my companion .
it 's a mongoose ,
cried the old woman
he had always been on good terms with his master .
i came in by train this morning , and on inquiring at paddington as to where i might find a doctor , a worthy fellow very kindly escorted me here .
do n't ask me , sir henry do n't ask me !
son of sir augustus moran , c .
soon , however , it seemed to him that the white men 's day was come , for through all the land he could hear of nothing but of their death and their overthrow .
i invited them to meet him here , and , as you see , i made him keep the appointment .
to go to baskerville hall .
we stayed long enough at the police station to learn that a search of his clothing revealed nothing save a few shillings and a long sheath knife , the handle of which bore copious traces of recent blood .
well , watson , it is on the face of it a not impossible supposition .
finally he walked over to the bed and spent some time in staring at it and in running his eye up and down the wall .
he was clad in a professional but rather slovenly fashion , for his frock coat was dingy and his trousers frayed .
that was clear from the instant that i determined the fact that it was from the roof , and not from a carriage , that he had fallen .
purple cap .
he is not particularly intelligent not a man likely to be congenial to a quick witted latin .
well , it was , as far as anybody that could be of any good goes .
i cannot say anything definite , for i do not know anything definite .
on receiving this the victim might either openly abjure his former ways , or might fly from the country .
of these the first and second were extremely condensed , while the last is , as i shall now show , an absolute perversion of the facts .
in rapid succession we passed through the fringe of fashionable london , hotel london , theatrical london , literary london , commercial london , and , finally , maritime london , till we came to a riverside city of a hundred thousand souls , where the tenement houses swelter and reek with the outcasts of europe .
you 've got something better , i fancy .
i only quote this as a trivial example of observation and inference .
he took the telegram out of his pocket , and handed it to me .
by no means .
she was clad in her dress he in his dressing gown , over his night clothes .
this is terrible !
in an instant the contents assumed a dull mahogany colour , and a brownish dust was precipitated to the bottom of the glass jar .
i think not , thank you ,
that on the day when my uncle burned the papers i observed that the small , unburned margins which lay amid the ashes were of this particular colour .
under these circumstances , i eagerly hailed the little mystery which hung around my companion , and spent much of my time in endeavouring to unravel it .
then i was right .
to the left of the door that is to say , farther up the path than is necessary to reach the door ?
with these he constructed a sort of eastern divan , upon which he perched himself cross legged , with an ounce of shag tobacco and a box of matches laid out in front of him .
was ajar .
it was a small tin cash box which stood upon the writing desk .
now , watson , put your shoulder to it , and we shall see whether we cannot make our way in .
holmes was silent and motionless but i could tell that he was keenly alert , and that his eyes were fixed intently upon the stream of passers by .
in his hand he carried what appeared to be a stick , but as he laid it down upon the floor it gave a metallic clang .
captain morstan disappears .
i cannot tell .
all day and sometimes all night , sir i 've seen that room of a morning well , sir , you 'd have thought it was a london fog .
that the hall is tenanted by williamson .
he was too self willed for the job .
some of the blows of my cane came home and roused its snakish temper , so that it flew upon the first person it saw .
no , no , mr gilchrist , sir , i never said a word never one word !
a few country carts were stirring , bearing in vegetables to the metropolis , but the lines of villas on either side were as silent and lifeless as some city in a dream .
holmes sat for some little time in silence .
we need not hurry ourselves , watson .
rows of very ancient yew trees cut into strange designs girded it round .
you see we have already arrived , by a process of exclusion , at the idea that she might have seen an american .
it was in january , ' , that my poor father met his end , and two years and eight months have elapsed since then .
our police work ends , but our legal work begins .
the other is the bicycle with the patched dunlop .
admirable , watson !
it 's all going wrong , watson all as wrong as it can go .
there are one maid , an old manservant , the sister , and the brother , the latter not a very strong man .
i noticed a copenhagen label upon each of their trunks , showing that that had been their last stopping place .
what is it for ?
come and have a look .
i should like just to remember the order of the houses here .
i turned the key gently in the lock , opened the door , and slipped through .
he had been engaged five years before , when douglas first came to birlstone .
it is absolutely essential to me , that i should have , pounds at once .
in spite of the reticence of their guests , scanlan and mcmurdo were quite determined to be present at what they called the fun . when , therefore , at an early hour one morning mcmurdo heard them creeping down the stairs he awakened scanlan , and the two hurried on their clothes .
we can only offer you a beggarly five hundred to start with .
you 're in her dog cart .
as impassive as ever to the casual observer , there were none the less a subdued eagerness and suggestion of tension in his brightened eyes and brisker manner which assured me that the game was afoot .
she was glad to meet me , but when she did it was not love that she would talk about , and she would n't have let me talk about it either if she could have stopped it .
mcmurdo strolled up the winding path hedged in with evergreens until he reached the deserted restaurant which forms the centre of summer gaiety .
i shook him by the arm , ' it 's time to get out , ' i said .
an ordinary schemer would have been content to work with a savage hound .
not even your skill can inform me where she is now .
what is it that you know ?
she impressed me neither favourably nor the reverse .
she gasped , in uncontrollable emotion .
what do you want with me ?
i alone knew it .
then why has he not indicated the book ?
snapping away with a camera when he ought to be improving his mind , and then diving down into the cellar like a rabbit into its hole to develop his pictures .
a short walk along the winding drive with such sward and oaks around it as one only sees in rural england , then a sudden turn , and the long , low jacobean house of dingy , liver coloured brick lay before us , with an old fashioned garden of cut yews on each side of it .
it was very sweet of you to come .
his name is pietro venucci , from naples , and he is one of the greatest cut throats in london .
ample .
or herman strauss ?
what can it matter to him that his landlady should have a word of his writing ?
so you see our savage friend was very orthodox in his ritual .
i presume that i may take it as correct this article , for example , as to the disappearance of the bride .
he crumpled the paper up and said nothing to his daughter , but the incident struck a chill into his heart .
with a dubious glance at the inspector 's notebook , he plunged at once into his extraordinary statement .
if i guarantee them , that is enough for you .
holmes also suggested that we should wait , not inside the hut , but outside it , among the bushes which grew round the farther window .
lal chowdar and i disposed of the body that night , and within a few days the london papers were full of the mysterious disappearance of captain morstan .
what do you think he pays him ?
i hope a wild goose may not prove to be the end of our chase ,
i do n't know what to say , mr holmes ,
there is that double possibility .
have you found your tramp ?
but i struggled upward , and at last i reached a ledge several feet deep and covered with soft green moss , where i could lie unseen , in the most perfect comfort .
tonga for that was his name was a fine boatman , and owned a big , roomy canoe of his own .
if you wish to see them you must go to the outhouse .
she was born for all that is beautiful and dainty .
and what may your address be ?
it came out in evidence that colonel moran and young adair had , between them , won a considerable amount of money .
it was a perfect reproduction of holmes .
on which the dead man very considerately got up and locked the door on the inside .
he must bring back the papers before morning or the loss will be discovered .
mr drebber has been with us nearly three weeks .
it was possible that they were already too late and that the work had been done .
but if she does not wish to shield him she would give his name .
i have been too busy to think of food , and i am likely to be busier still this evening .
your statement is , i foresee , one of the most remarkable to which i have ever listened .
it was fear a deep , secret , shrinking fear .
come in !
i am glad of all details ,
now i am sure that you would not be too proud to earn the price of a new dress , would you ?
but surely not in the eyes of the law .
why , whatever are you doing ?
i never remember feeling tired by work , though idleness exhausts me completely .
in a week or less , from what i see , john bull will be on his hind legs and fair ramping .
there was the gentle rustle of a woman 's dress .
ah , a scent of tobacco would have been worth a great deal to us in such an investigation .
under solemn promises
this malignant and terrible contortion , combined with the low forehead , blunt nose , and prognathous jaw gave the dead man a singularly simious and ape like appearance , which was increased by his writhing , unnatural posture .
the premier snatched the blue envelope from his hand .
out of the window he must apparently have gone for no other exit could be discovered , and the ominous bloodstains upon the sill gave little promise that he could save himself by swimming , for the tide was at its very highest at the moment of the tragedy .
i 'll tell it you from the beginning .
pray sit down , mr scott eccles ,
well , mr holmes , if this is true , we only tumble out of one mystery into another ,
woodwork and glass gave way before him but before he got quite through , gregson , lestrade , and holmes sprang upon him like so many staghounds .
the servants had already gone to their quarters .
i alighted and sent a message to sir henry that i should walk over in time for dinner .
the trim inspector martin , the old , gray headed country doctor , myself , and a stolid village policeman made up the rest of that strange company .
he was urging his son to marry my daughter with as little regard for what she might think as if she were a slut from off the streets .
yes , i will turn it up , that i may see you the better .
only one little gleam of hope did i get and yet it amounted to nothing .
i made some inquiries myself about the matter .
for an instant his eyes blazed at me , but my frankness disarmed his anger , and he broke at last into a rather rueful laugh .
i heard her shut the door , and felt quite sure that she had turned the key in the lock .
now , i have done my duty , and
he tossed it across with a laugh .
he has grown gray in the service , is a gentleman , a favoured guest in the most exalted houses , and , above all , a man whose patriotism is beyond suspicion .
one of them seems restless enough .
altogether there were not less than five hundred scattered over the coal district .
he was fifty and i a foolish girl of twenty when we married .
he 'll be as glad to see me as you were , i dare say .
when we were in switzerland he followed us with moriarty , and it was undoubtedly he who gave me that evil five minutes on the reichenbach ledge .
oh , yes i sent him a couple of dozen .
was there ever a more mild mannered , sunday school young man ?
she repeated over and over again .
it is a large supposition for discreet inquiry among servants and others has failed to corroborate it in any way .
i remember that there was a woman outside as i entered .
is pounds a week .
he 'll see that that 's horse sense .
he struck gennaro senseless and fled from the house which he was never more to enter .
that is curious , for i did when i was half asleep fancy that i heard something of the sort .
it seems a singularly useless thing to steal ,
the old gentleman could not be decoyed outside of his grounds at night .
when he hears that one of the family has been subjected to such humiliation ?
if i am to have a doctor whether i will or not , let me at least have someone in whom i have confidence ,
yes , he was delirious with fever once when he had his hunting accident three years ago .
he stood blinking and smiling amid the congratulations of the brothers .
no the matter passed as unimportant .
at that instant holmes sprang like a tiger on to the marksman 's back , and hurled him flat upon his face .
is not this so ?
he looked at me with a surprised face .
they were the only signs of human life which i could see , save only those prehistoric huts which lay thickly upon the slopes of the hills .
how do all these unusuals strike you , watson ?
she went on .
my practice
yellow and black stripes .
no one else .
upon the second day of his absence i received a telegram from the major , imploring me to come at once .
go to the scene of the crime !
it was a simple trick , but exceedingly effective .
there were several gentlemen who knew my sad history and united to help me .
our presence is most urgently needed .
i think that the strange creature in the kitchen may account for it .
with a stout bearing , therefore , though her manner had shaken me more than i cared to confess , i still shook my head and declared my intention of remaining where i was .
in the centre of the ceiling was scrawled , with a burned stick apparently , the number .
you shall see her if you sign .
mr mortimer tregennis died during the night , and with exactly the same symptoms as the rest of his family .
i ejaculated .
on landing at bombay , i learned that my corps had advanced through the passes , and was already deep in the enemy 's country .
then out came my poor young master , whom i had dandled on my knee , and confessed it all to me .
well , mrs lucca ,
maybe you think that the game is not over yet .
good bye .
the light flashed upon the barrel of a revolver , but holmes ' hunting crop came down on the man 's wrist , and the pistol clinked upon the stone floor .
maps were drawn and charts prepared , in which the future city was sketched out .
i have marvelled at it since , but at the time it seemed the most natural thing that i should go out to her so , and , as she has often told me , there was in her also the instinct to turn to me for comfort and protection .
i 've heard it once or twice before , but never quite so loud .
i shall now recapitulate what the police have done in the matter .
twice .
his household used to consist of an elderly housekeeper , mrs marker , and of a maid , susan tarlton .
at first i had some idea as to the direction in which we were driving but soon , what with our pace , the fog , and my own limited knowledge of london , i lost my bearings , and knew nothing , save that we seemed to be going a very long way .
yes , sir
on the other hand , we brought to the surface an object of a most unexpected kind .
indirectly it may be of value , you know you have only to put it into words to gain the reputation of being excellent company for the remainder of your existence .
what object is served by this circle of misery and violence and fear ?
again we saw the dim silhouette of a crouching man and the whisk of the small flame across the window as the signals were renewed .
i tell you that it is friday , man .
behind one of these clumps i took up my position , so as to command both the gateway of the hall and a long stretch of the road upon either side .
i would never trust a banker , mr holmes .
my name figures in no newspaper .
i think not .
i can swear to one thing , and that is that we have not been shadowed during the last two days .
you see nothing remarkable ?
whether these were private grounds , however , or bona fide country was more than i could possibly venture to say .
i could see no other way out of it , so we did as he suggested .
in the middle of it rose two great stones , worn and sharpened at the upper end until they looked like the huge corroding fangs of some monstrous beast .
we have come ,
no information could be got from the lady herself , who was temporarily insane from an acute attack of brain fever .
mcmurdo shook his head gloomily .
no , no , nothing of the kind .
i 'll tell you .
the inspector was transfigured with excitement .
these articles , with two small wicker work chairs , made up all the furniture in the room save for a square of wilton carpet in the centre .
then , with an inarticulate roar of fury , the prisoner wrenched himself free from holmes 's grasp , and hurled himself through the window .
the fact is that our friend , the baronet , begins to display a considerable interest in our fair neighbour .
and now to night you at last know all , and i ask you what is to become of us , my child and me ?
there is a sugar tongs there .
do you not yourself think that he is innocent ?
you found
so that to reach the yew alley one either has to come down it from the house or else to enter it by the moor gate ?
yes , once or twice , when he came into coombe tracey .
she is waiting now in the sitting room .
he 's in hobson 's patch but i do n't know the house .
you must keep on until you do .
holmes 's brow was dark with anxiety .
both cases decided , dr watson , and both in my favour .
he lived at sydenham , but he was likely to be in that morning for instructions , if we cared to wait for him .
cried lestrade with some bitterness .
come in here , watson !
sherlock holmes was already at breakfast when i came down .
i had come into the parlour unexpected , and as i walked in at the door i saw a light of welcome on my wife 's face .
dr mortimer drew it from his breast pocket .
it was a surprise to me , therefore , to hear him asking holmes in an eager voice whether he had made any advance in his reconstruction of this mysterious episode .
this has always been held so .
it is very possible if i had known about this notebook it might have led away my thoughts , as it did yours .
now , sir , i suggest that you take no notice of this addition to your audience , and that you proceed with your narrative exactly as you would have done had you never been interrupted .
no one can see him come to the house after dark , and i 'll lay to it that no one will see him go .
the letter for it was a letter from a foreign potentate was received six days ago .
while life lasts i could never do that !
i have traced her .
i began my operations at gloucester road station , where a very helpful official walked with me along the track and allowed me to satisfy myself not only that the back stair windows of caulfield gardens open on the line but the even more essential fact that , owing to the intersection of one of the larger railways , the underground trains are frequently held motionless for some minutes at that very spot .
it certainly seems probable .
i have no idea what she meant .
is it not glorious ?
oh , a few minutes .
no , indeed .
he cried , laughing .
he pushed his face forward as he spoke and his lips and eyelids were continually twitching like a man with st .
it is high , but it may be that you can jump it .
within all was absolute silence and darkness .
in the middle of the night he heard a soft tread pass his door , so he rose and , looking out , was surprised to see his cousin walking very stealthily along the passage until she disappeared into your dressing room .
i have known that young man go into a good many cases , but i never saw the case yet that he could not throw a light upon .
this alone puts the lady 's story out of court .
the place was pitch dark , but it was evident to me that it was an empty house .
a second inscription above the door informed us that a steam launch was kept , a statement which was confirmed by a great pile of coke upon the jetty .
our footfalls rang out crisply and loudly as we swung through the doctors ' quarter , wimpole street , harley street , and so through wigmore street into oxford street .
they had one very good quality : they let you alone and asked no questions .
i can only say , madam , that i shall be happy to devote the same care to your case as i did to that of your friend .
it is quite certain that the thief or thieves were well acquainted with the house , for mr jones 's well known technical knowledge and his powers of minute observation have enabled him to prove conclusively that the miscreants could not have entered by the door or by the window , but must have made their way across the roof of the building , and so through a trap door into a room which communicated with that in which the body was found .
it 's you !
far away , a black dot , we could see a vehicle moving in our direction .
at the same moment a sinewy brown hand caught the frightened horse by the curb , and forcing a way through the drove , soon brought her to the outskirts .
he stared in amazement , and then snatched the paper from my hands .
i looked with interest upon this man , who was accused of being the perpetrator of a crime of violence .
i had come to the conclusion that he had dropped asleep , and indeed was nodding myself , when he suddenly sprang out of his chair with the gesture of a man who has made up his mind and put his pipe down upon the mantelpiece .
that was the end of the matter so far as i was concerned .
come now , bannister ,
the salesman chuckled grimly .
holmes advanced along it in the same slow and methodical way , while we kept close at his heels , with our long black shadows streaming backwards down the corridor .
it had an ugly sound ,
i fancy not .
i may be forced to acquiesce in these recent developments , but i can hardly be expected to make merry over them .
it was a fight of the millions against the hundreds and the cruellest part of it was that these men that we fought against , foot , horse , and gunners , were our own picked troops , whom we had taught and trained , handling our own weapons , and blowing our own bugle calls .
mrs browner 's house had been closed for more than three days , and the neighbours were of opinion that she had gone south to see her relatives .
some curious person from the village , perhaps ,
it was the worst enemy i had among them all one who has been after me like a hungry wolf after a caribou all these years .
i expected something definite by this time .
have you found anything out yet ?
his bed had not been slept in , he had been seen by no one since he had retired to his room the night before , and yet it was difficult to see how he could have left the house , as both windows and doors were found to be fastened in the morning .
in search of the body of lady st .
bring with you a jemmy , a dark lantern , a chisel , and a revolver .
hullo !
but see here , little girl .
this is a strange welcome ,
is the water always turbid ?
was it politics , then , or was it a woman ?
he had many acquaintances among them , but few friends , and no one whom he loved .
sir henry baskerville listened with the deepest attention and with an occasional exclamation of surprise .
dear me ,
come , come !
and he is waiting , this villain , beside that candle .
a passenger sprang out of it and advanced swiftly towards him , while the chauffeur , a heavily built , elderly man with a gray moustache , settled down like one who resigns himself to a long vigil .
i will tell you no more gloomy details .
the world shall know of the merchant achmet no more , but the great treasure of the rajah shall be divided among us .
never mind .
he little knew how far that iron grasp could reach , or how soon it was to close upon them and crush them .
but it must be late .
holmes , with all his wisdom , did not foresee some things which have happened since i have been on the moor .
but there is nothing to eat unless he were to catch and slaughter one of the moor sheep .
but i think i have the key of the affair now .
a vague pathway among the boulders led to the dilapidated opening which served as a door .
it was sixty four feet .
the king may do what he will without hindrance from one whom he has cruelly wronged .
but do n't let yourself be drawn away upon a false scent , mr phelps .
well , we are quite in your hands , mr holmes ,
but you may imagine what i felt when , just as i came to the altar rails , i glanced back and saw frank standing and looking at me out of the first pew .
but what a strange compensation !
and now ?
i shall expect you , then , at eyford at : .
i trust that when i see you in the evening , i will be able to report that i have been able to do something for this unfortunate youngster , who has thrown himself upon my protection .
that is right .
the question i 'm asking you is what shall we say to him ?
it 's coming !
they told me that you were fond of queer mysteries , and i do n't think you can find a queerer one than that .
barker had seized his outstretched hand .
she was a little hard of hearing .
i must borrow mrs forrester 's poker .
and you can do nothing until then ?
he may have been asleep , or he may have been so paralyzed with terror as to have been unable to cry out .
it is understood that the next of kin is mr henry baskerville , if he be still alive , the son of sir charles baskerville 's younger brother .
the letter , then , might either come from hudson , the seaman , saying that he had betrayed the guilty secret which appeared to exist , or it might come from beddoes , warning an old confederate that such a betrayal was imminent .
he had stayed at the boarding house of madame charpentier , in torquay terrace , camberwell .
but the gem of my collection is coming and there is the setting all ready for it .
during this dialogue , john ferrier had stood fuming in the doorway , hardly able to keep his riding whip from the backs of his two visitors .
he was back from his mission in the afternoon , and saw mcginty at the union house .
holmes interposed ,
at my cry he dropped it from his grasp and turned as pale as death .
because he feared i would make some inquiry after him in that case , and possibly bring trouble on him .
punishment has been slow in coming , but it has overtaken you at last .
but it kills the appetite .
we know he is at the bottom of fifty murders , and yet we have nothing positive we can take him on .
i was engaged to him , mr holmes , when i heard a shocking story of how he had turned a cat loose in an aviary , and i was so horrified at his brutal cruelty that i would have nothing more to do with him .
my companion put his hand upon my shoulder and his lips close to my ear .
well , of course it was obvious from the first that this mr hosmer angel must have some strong object for his curious conduct , and it was equally clear that the only man who really profited by the incident , as far as we could see , was the stepfather .
pray proceed .
i want to find the whereabouts of a steam launch called the aurora , owner mordecai smith , black with two red streaks , funnel black with a white band .
he cried , in a kind of ecstasy of delight .
he is not in his room .
we may form some conception as to the motives of the crime .
remarkable , is it not ?
i am a connoisseur ,
simon .
i must have a peep through that , watson .
smart very smart !
we must ask about this right away .
he caught it up , devoured it with his eyes , and then danced madly about the room , pressing it to his bosom and shrieking out in his delight .
wiggins has just been up to report .
i lost sight of him behind a stack of chimneys , but he presently reappeared , and then vanished once more upon the opposite side .
but i cared a great deal for the much more formidable person who was behind him , the bosom friend of moriarty , the man who dropped the rocks over the cliff , the most cunning and dangerous criminal in london .
our young companion looked at me with a twinkle in his eye .
we only ask you to do that which your countrymen come to this land for .
they have the crown down at hurlstone though they had some legal bother and a considerable sum to pay before they were allowed to retain it .
at the bottom of the river ,
i was going to tell you though you remember when we left the river ?
he watched us with sullen eyes until we had left his premises .
what 's this under the side table ?
he held out his hand as he spoke , and i noticed that it was all mottled over with similar pieces of plaster , and discoloured with strong acids .
with that exception , all has gone as i expected .
what inhuman rogues there are in the world !
it 's this as has brought me , good gentlemen ,
he never spoke of the softer passions , save with a gibe and a sneer .
if we act quickly and wisely , we can cut this thing short .
my name is sawyer her 's is dennis , which tom dennis married her and a smart , clean lad , too , as long as he 's at sea , and no steward in the company more thought of but when on shore , what with the women and what with liquor shops
i shall now add a little milk to make the mixture palatable , and on presenting it to the dog we find that he laps it up readily enough .
boots , shirt , cap it was all sir henry ' s .
i have learned caution now , and i had rather play tricks with the law of england than with my own conscience .
it appears that i am wrong look at this !
this is the house , this big one in its own grounds .
none knew who belonged to this ruthless society .
you were recalling the incidents of beecher 's career .
is this a man to traduce ?
let me see that letter you were writing .
finally he unravelled a bundle of clothing , comprising a complete set of underclothes , socks , a gray tweed suit , and a short yellow overcoat .
you are the first who have ever heard my story .
it is simple enough as you explain it ,
however , he was as eager now to consult the person named as he had been obstinate in refusing .
the two smiths , father and son , sat sullenly in their launch , but came aboard meekly enough when commanded .
they are naturally hideous , having large , misshapen heads , small , fierce eyes , and distorted features .
we dare not take the chance of his being overtaken before he can reach us .
in that case ,
she 's wearing away under it just wearing away before my eyes .
he shouted .
but a country doctor , as you very astutely observed .
you were aware of it .
his dress was rich with a richness which would , in england , be looked upon as akin to bad taste .
my nerves , which were steady enough on the field of battle tingled as i thought of it .
but it was a sore temptation .
the band !
insensibly one begins to twist facts to suit theories , instead of theories to suit facts .
what sort of facts ?
but we have n't opposed him yet ,
von bork groaned and sank back on the sofa .
therefore , a local fanatic would begin with them .
you see here on the sill is the boot mark , a heavy boot with the broad metal heel , and beside it is the mark of the timber toe .
my god !
well , that 's reasonable enough ,
where to ?
several times stapleton lurked about with his hound , but without avail .
a good deal .
as the young hunter approached it , he perceived that a stick had been planted on it , with a sheet of paper stuck in the cleft fork of it .
he had a very dark , fearsome face , and a gleam in his eyes that comes back to me in my dreams his hair and whiskers were shot with gray , and his face was all crinkled and puckered like a withered apple .
what is that ?
this is very painful very painful and terrible ,
i do not see that we are any further than when he came .
the two sikhs closed in upon him on each side , and the giant walked behind , while they marched in through the dark gate way .
at the sound of his strident , angry cries there was movement in the huddled bundle upon the deck .
i exclaimed in unfeigned admiration .
yes , sir
as i passed his pew on the way out i dropped my bouquet over to him , and he slipped the note into my hand when he returned me the flowers .
i do n't care about the look of either of you , and i will n't tell a word .
' then they must all go back together to night , ' said i .
williamson , the ex clergyman , bowed to us with mock politeness , and the bully , woodley , advanced with a shout of brutal and exultant laughter .
that 's why the barrels were sawed .
i never have .
may i be there to see !
i shall be true to hosmer .
well , yes .
i pulled off almost at the same instant , and down he dropped .
a great deal of my journalistic work is done at night , and i often write until the early morning .
you have made your statement very clearly .
i exclaimed .
are the only initials we have to solve .
holmes stopped over them for an instant , and then rose shrugging his shoulders .
i think that with your permission i will now wish you all a very good night .
from charing cross hospital ?
as i sat by my bedroom window i saw three men in the moonlight down by the lodge gate yonder , but i thought nothing of it at the time .
but i think none of you should go until we see more clearly how we all stand .
half of this i took , as you saw , and i placed it in an envelope .
i guess we may meet again .
our cabs were dismissed , and , following the guidance of mr merryweather , we passed down a narrow passage and through a side door , which he opened for us .
why , watson , even your modest moustache would have been singed .
in ten more we were seated in the parlour of the inn and being treated to a rapid sketch of those events which have been outlined in the previous chapter .
still i had had such extraordinary evidence of the quickness of his perceptive faculties , that i had no doubt that he could see a great deal which was hidden from me .
on glancing over my notes of the seventy odd cases in which i have during the last eight years studied the methods of my friend sherlock holmes , i find many tragic , some comic , a large number merely strange , but none commonplace for , working as he did rather for the love of his art than for the acquirement of wealth , he refused to associate himself with any investigation which did not tend towards the unusual , and even the fantastic .
about half a mile from the town , standing in an old park famous for its huge beech trees , is the ancient manor house of birlstone .
what has she been saying to you ?
i have no time !
nay , madam , there again you ask me more than i can possibly answer .
a presentation , i see ,
there was the clatter of running feet upon the pavement , and two policemen in uniform , with one plain clothes detective , rushed through the front entrance and into the room .
you did it very nicely , doctor ,
the word ' redskins ' was on every lip .
we have a seven mile drive before us .
then we lost them for half a mile , but only to pick them up once more quite close to mapleton .
but , dear me , how slow witted i have been , and how nearly i have committed the blunder of my lifetime !
exactly .
send us in with him , and we shall do the rest while you stay here on guard .
it was clear that it did .
that is all plain enough .
i had no time to think of it .
my room at the cedars is a double bedded one .
in ten long years of outrage there had been no single conviction , and the only danger that ever threatened the scowrers lay in the victim himself who , however outnumbered and taken by surprise , might and occasionally did leave his mark upon his assailants .
and as i looked i suddenly became aware that a face was watching me out of one of the upper windows .
there was no sign or trace of his passenger , and i fear it will be some time before he gets his fare .
for heaven 's sake , do n't abandon me , mr holmes !
that is sure .
i was in such a hurry to come to you .
after a time the baronet opened his door and called for me .
you 've seen the postman .
from an expression which my husband dropped in the first shock of this disaster i understood that terrible public consequences might arise from the loss of this document .
then go to london and test your conclusions .
the fellow was making his way into the house .
have they been in the dining room yet ?
then comes something much more definite : ' the path is clearing .
for the first time our eyes rested upon this presentment of the great emperor , which seemed to raise such frantic and destructive hatred in the mind of the unknown .
but it is impossible ,
they may mean something or nothing .
now he rose and rang the bell .
he swears by london , you know and i by birmingham but this time i shall follow his advice .
they chose us because neither i nor the boy here drink ,
all is lost .
after his habit he said nothing , and after mine i asked no questions .
holmes had looked annoyed , but his brow cleared , and he clapped me on the shoulder .
never .
at the square topped corner public houses business was just beginning , and rough looking men were emerging , rubbing their sleeves across their beards after their morning wet .
he is not a stranger to the district .
rebels at stagnation .
so for three mornings the mystery remained , so far as i could follow it in the papers .
my splendid , beautiful gennaro , who has guarded me safe from all harm , he did it , with his own strong hand he killed the monster !
in an instant , with a tiger spring , the dying man had intercepted me .
why , it is just such a chance as you have been longing for .
the love which had sprung up in his heart was not the sudden , changeable fancy of a boy , but rather the wild , fierce passion of a man of strong will and imperious temper .
in the middle of the hut a flat stone served the purpose of a table , and upon this stood a small cloth bundle the same , no doubt , which i had seen through the telescope upon the shoulder of the boy .
three centuries had flowed past the old manor house , centuries of births and of homecomings , of country dances and of the meetings of fox hunters .
see , the other moves also !
i do n't see that they had very much to do with his capture ,
there is the young lady , too .
to do nothing whatever .
now tell us of that last evening .
could we not get a warrant and legalize it ?
nor had they cause , as the result was to show .
you have your back answer quick enough .
yes , sir henry .
what is it ?
on the outside was written radix pedis diaboli with a red poison label beneath it .
her eyes and teeth gleamed with fierce merriment .
the last on the left next my father 's .
but the real blow was to my heart and not to my head , for as i came to and listened to as much as i could understand of their talk , i heard enough to tell me that my comrade , the very man who had arranged the way that i was to take , had betrayed me by means of a native servant into the hands of the enemy .
it may seem very foolish in your eyes ,
your niece knew nothing of such men .
the clerk was struck at the time by his excited and nervous manner .
he does not flinch from his friend .
my good fellow this is a very serious business , and you may find yourself in a pretty bad position if you try to hide anything from me .
you look surprised , and no wonder !
it will balance you so much better like that .
he took the papers to london to sell the secret , intending , no doubt , to have the plans themselves back in the safe next morning before they were missed .
his name was gorgiano , and he had come also from posilippo .
good old toby !
very good .
he certainly needs a wash ,
you do n't mean to say that you have been walking about london with that thing ?
our researches have evidently been running on parallel lines , and when we unite our results i expect we shall have a fairly full knowledge of the case .
at the head of the column there rode a score or more of grave ironfaced men , clad in sombre homespun garments and armed with rifles .
a lie , watson a great , big , thumping , obtrusive , uncompromising lie that 's what meets us on the threshold !
mr hilton cubitt had been shot through the heart .
you have compromised yourself seriously .
and now , sir , perhaps i had best show you to your rooms
i suggested .
can you understand what i say ?
with characteristic promptness and audacity he set about this at once , and we cannot doubt that the boots or chamber maid of the hotel was well bribed to help him in his design .
on the evening of the crime , he returned from the club exactly at ten .
your french gold ?
i had observed some newspaper comment at the time , but i was exceedingly preoccupied by that little affair of the vatican cameos , and in my anxiety to oblige the pope i lost touch with several interesting english cases .
i meant no harm , sir , i 'm sure .
and when she is undeceived ?
he now took the stick from my hands and examined it for a few minutes with his naked eyes .
do not join in it .
such a very natural action , too , if you come to think of it .
no , sir but i want to find out about them , and who they are , and what their object was in playing this prank if it was a prank upon me .
in future you shall send up wiggins alone to report , and the rest of you must wait in the street .
yes , sir , it is true that he threw the decanter at me .
exclaimed ferrier furiously , and would have rushed upstairs for his gun had not lucy seized him by the arm and restrained him .
holmes took up the scrap of paper , a fac simile of which is here reproduced .
the scent appeared to be much hotter than before , for he had not even to put his nose on the ground , but tugged at his leash and tried to break into a run .
failure , sir , absolute failure .
precisely so .
no ticket !
yes , i was chasing a cyclopides .
yes , sir , it is a blood stain .
do you think that this man horner is innocent ?
hold out your hand , man , and make it up !
in normal cases one can place a man in his true decade with tolerable confidence .
holmes threw the reins into my lap and sprang down from the cart .
but with a child .
a little way on one side of the camp was a low lying heap of reddish soil , which had assuredly not been there before .
the young inspector winced at my companion 's ironical comments .
the hasp sprang open with a loud snap .
of course you expect two brothers to be alike , but not that they should have the same tooth stuffed in the same way .
well , well , it just happens that i have already read all the available evidence , including the report of the inquest , with some care .
it was easy to see that he shared the other 's opinion as to the danger , and the need for meeting it .
i had only one confidant my brother mycroft .
one of our greatest statesmen has said that a change of work is the best rest .
no finger impressions no !
therefore , it could only have come from a train , and that train , so far as we can trace it , must have passed about midnight on monday .
that 's good enough .
well , when i came to think it all over in cool blood i was very much astonished , as you may both think , at this sudden commission which had been intrusted to me .
i confide it to your honour and to your love of justice .
perhaps it would be easier for you if i were to tell mr soames what occurred , and you can check me where i am wrong .
i see you speak the truth ,
and how ?
the question now is whether we should take a premature lunch here , or run our chance of starving before we reach the buffet at newhaven .
holmes smiled and rubbed his hands .
it should give a clue , mr holmes .
of course , so far as his concealment goes there is no difficulty at all .
frank here and i met in ' , in mcquire 's camp , near the rockies , where pa was working a claim .
but , say , there 's one bit of advice i 'll give you before we part : if you 're in trouble in vermissa , go straight to the union house and see boss mcginty .
he fell wounded he stood up he remounted he proceeded .
no , it was more likely to be an attempt to explain how he met his fate .
for the rest , there is nothing which a sponge may not cure .
cried the king of bohemia , when we had all three read this epistle .
i would go , i would go .
but they determined to get rid forever of garcia .
now for our friend lestrade .
i told him that we would give him a price for the stones he held pounds apiece .
that would be the most effective of all proofs .
for myself , my term of service in india had trained me to stand heat better than cold , and a thermometer of was no hardship .
well , watson , i do not think that woolwich can help us further .
there he remained until closing time , and when he came out he was so far gone that i knew the game was in my own hands .
one is enough , lady hilda .
you know me too well to think that i am boasting when i say that i shall either confirm or destroy his theory by means which he is quite incapable of employing , or even of understanding .
it was an hour 's good drive .
as far as i can see , the man has been driven out of his senses by fright .
there are indications that the man was crazed with fear before ever he began to run .
that is a question which has puzzled many an expert , and why ?
show him round here .
we are out of luck ,
quite right !
was douglas , from what we hear of his fearless character , a man who would be likely to give up his wedding ring at such short notice , or could we conceive of his giving it up at all ?
of all the facts which were presented to us we had to pick just those which we deemed to be essential , and then piece them together in their order , so as to reconstruct this very remarkable chain of events .
before reaching the town the hunter branched away into a rugged and narrow footpath which led to the mountains .
will you see him ?
now and then i hazarded some remark to break the monotony of the journey , but the colonel answered only in monosyllables , and the conversation soon flagged .
one day it was in march , a letter with a foreign stamp lay upon the table in front of the colonel 's plate .
i had no opportunity to tell the baronet what i had learned about mrs lyons upon the evening before , for dr mortimer remained with him at cards until it was very late .
i am glad to meet you , sir ,
he grindeth slowly but exceeding small .
so good night to you and good night , councillor .
i always hear him unlock it as i go down the stair after i leave the tray .
it 's evidently the same villains who broke into acton 's .
i commend that fact very carefully to your attention ,
ah , smart , smart !
sold out of geese , i see ,
the biggest thing for years ,
shall i demonstrate your own ignorance ?
what does man want more ?
the beasts have pulled him off and clubbed him .
our visitor half rose from his chair in his excitement .
about halfway up the forearm was a curious brown design , a triangle inside a circle , standing out in vivid relief upon the lard coloured skin .
man , you can n't but recognize it !
the boscombe pool is thickly wooded round , with just a fringe of grass and of reeds round the edge .
it was worth an effort to find out , and for that object we all went up to the house .
his back was bowed , his knees were shaky , and his breathing was painfully asthmatic .
colonel lysander stark had said that it was only seven miles , but i should think , from the rate that we seemed to go , and from the time that we took , that it must have been nearer twelve .
that is why i have made you promise me that you will not tell a human being that you are going to eyford to night .
sometimes i followed them on my cab , and sometimes on foot , but the former was the best , for then they could not get away from me .
with the unreasonable petulance of mankind i rang the bell and gave a curt intimation that i was ready .
before i could make my impression .
name the sum , and i will pay it .
i came at once and had a look at the place , but i could not see how with my wooden leg i was to make my way up to it .
there is no objection to my having an unofficial interview with him , either here in my rooms or elsewhere , as long as he is efficiently guarded ?
suggestive !
i will make the announcement later .
i actually opened the box while i was dressing for dinner and saw the document inside .
i 'll make the whole matter clear to you presently .
she was plainly but neatly dressed , with a bright , quick face , freckled like a plover 's egg , and with the brisk manner of a woman who has had her own way to make in the world .
thank you , that will do ,
she swept across the room and seated herself with her back to the window .
show them straight in to me .
it was his belief that if he were given time in which to realize them , all would be well and every creditor paid in full .
i could see that she hated me and feared me , and when the thought of it drove me to drink , then she despised me as well .
oh , jack , now i can tell you the truth .
you must escort her home .
why , i could have sworn to it .
what a charming , old fashioned room !
only this : that i know that that mark was not there when i examined the hall yesterday .
i stared at him in astonishment .
a flush of colour sprang to holmes 's pale cheeks , and he bowed to us like the master dramatist who receives the homage of his audience .
very likely i have .
we can do little more until next saturday , and in the meantime i may make one or two inquiries myself .
within the last five ?
the next few minutes were delicious .
i had an answer to my advertisement .
dr armstrong took a quick step forward and wrung holmes by the hand .
my hand mirror had been broken , so a happy thought seized me , and i concealed a piece of the glass in my handkerchief .
the lack of combination in the three quarter line and their weakness both in attack and defence more than neutralized the efforts of a heavy and hard working pack .
anyhow , he got both barrels in the face , and there i was , staring down at all that was left of ted baldwin .
who has been in my room ?
this dress does implicate miss flora millar .
i am afraid that you will find it difficult .
no , i do n't know where he came from nor where he went to .
every good stone is .
you must make allowance for this poor girl , placed in so unprecedented a position .
he glanced at a telegram which awaited him and threw it into the grate .
you see that he has begun by writing the .
in the evening , tired but happy
it is a pleasure to work with you .
it 's not the police but you that he 'll hate if you do n't !
he took up the paper in a listless way , but his attention instantly became riveted , and he gave a little cry of satisfaction .
have you heard of the events which led up to this affair ?
what if we are stopped ,
what business have you here ?
it is solved .
he dipped into this bottle or that , drawing out a few drops of each with his glass pipette , and finally brought a test tube containing a solution over to the table .
that is exactly what i want to ask you .
we may find a jealous husband at the bottom of it all .
something has come into that room which has dashed the light of reason from their minds .
and i must further beg you to be so unconventional as to allow me to leave your house presently by scrambling over your back garden wall .
one dumb bell , watson !
i do not know .
whatever they wanted to bring me all the way up here for , and then
i 'll make it as short as i can .
same old platform .
i nodded again .
how came this man to have anything to do with it ?
all that night we sat together , our arms round each other , each strengthening each for the troubles that lay before us .
meanwhile , please send by messenger , to await return at baker street , a complete list of all foreign spies or international agents known to be in england , with full address .
excellent !
we had not long to wait , for our norfolk squire came straight from the station as fast as a hansom could bring him .
she was deadly pale and breathing fast , glancing furtively towards the bed as she fastened her mantle , to see if she had disturbed me .
was mr sherlock holmes .
he cut a slice of beef from the joint upon the sideboard , sandwiched it between two rounds of bread , and thrusting this rude meal into his pocket he started off upon his expedition .
just beyond it , however , at the far side of the kitchen door , a woman had stood and talked with a man , whose round impressions on one side showed that he had a wooden leg .
that 's the past , mr douglas ,
then let me do so ?
of air guns .
i confess that i felt easier in my mind when , after following holmes ' example and slipping off my shoes , i found myself inside the bedroom .
on the contrary , i can never recollect having seen him in such exuberant spirits .
twice burglars in my pay ransacked her house .
standing at the window , i watched her walking briskly down the street , until the gray turban and white feather were but a speck in the sombre crowd .
there was nothing in it to suggest a clue , some clothes , some books , and a considerable number of curiosities from the andaman islands .
now we are on the bridge .
perhaps we can clear the point up before we separate ,
why should the bell ring ?
in that case ,
all was in keeping with a solemn butler who appeared framed in the pink radiance of a tinted electrical light behind him .
it is fear , mr holmes .
beside this chair , and still grasping one of its legs , lay the unfortunate tenant of the house .
you can give me the glad hand to night , mister ,
it was not until we had consumed some hot tea at the station and taken our places in the kentish train that we were sufficiently thawed , he to speak and i to listen .
so he did me .
even if she could n't love me , it was a great deal to me just to see her dainty form about the house , and to hear the sound of her voice .
he has been for some years a victim to cataleptic attacks , on which , as is well known , dr trevelyan is an authority .
you cannot imagine what a terrible fellow he is when he is angry .
indeed !
he took down the great book in which , day by day , he filed the agony columns of the various london journals .
sherlock holmes had sprung out and seized the intruder by the collar .
maybe not , sir
the greater number of these were workmen returning from their day 's toil in the lower part of the valley .
the murder of stangerson was an incident which was entirely unexpected , but which could hardly in any case have been prevented .
he whipped out his lens and a tape measure , and hurried about the room on his knees , measuring , comparing , examining , with his long thin nose only a few inches from the planks , and his beady eyes gleaming and deep set like those of a bird .
anyhow , i 'd as soon die with a rope round my neck as with black peter 's knife in my heart .
but your more deadly proposition is not so clear .
percy has been inquiring for you all morning .
the two mates had both been seized by the crew , and the whole business seemed to be settled .
his face was flushed with anger and his brows were wrinkled , like one who is at his wit 's ends what to do .
this lair of his would be too valuable a retreat in case of need for him to give it up until he was sure that he could do without it .
holmes looked at blessington in his questioning way and shook his head .
i assure you that , after a few months ' training , he was an admirable assistant .
i rang the bell and was shown up to the chamber which had formerly been in part my own .
i feared as much .
by the table , in a wooden arm chair , the master of the house was seated all in a heap , with his head sunk upon his left shoulder , and that ghastly , inscrutable smile upon his face .
he lifted bundle after bundle in a tender , caressing sort of way .
does your explanation cover every point ?
wilson and eight others were wriggling on the top of each other on the floor , and the blood and the brown sherry on that table turn me sick now when i think of it .
it was a wax coloured model of my friend , so admirably done that it was a perfect facsimile .
i will tell you ,
this time there was loud applause .
yes , there were several objects in the room which called for special attention .
entirely , if you will help me to the men .
this faces the road and opens by a large glass folding door on to the lawn .
you give me hopes ?
your words have dazed me .
my overstrung nerves failed me suddenly , and i turned and ran ran as though some dreadful hand were behind me clutching at the skirt of my dress .
and what conclusions did the coroner come to ?
the windows are all lighting up , and you 'll have the whole town here inside of five minutes .
to the tower .
dear me !
it ended suddenly on its highest note with a choke and a gurgle .
i think that if anyone could have drawn him into the right path it would have been she , and that his marriage might have changed his whole life but now , alas !
we have not got our name up yet , for we only secured these temporary premises last week .
he had played cards with the lad , he had followed him home from the club , he had shot him through the open window .
yes , we were all arrested upon his confession .
and how strangely made !
i would suggest that you cease to write your name upon the lining of your hat , or else that you turn the crown towards the person whom you are addressing .
as a matter of fact , he could not ,
instead of that he took two tickets for the theatre , escorted his fiancee halfway there , and then suddenly disappeared .
the nature of the bill showed that there was a lady in the case , and one who had expensive tastes .
what 's that ?
but all i heard pointed in the one direction .
i can n't make bricks without clay .
that 's the truth , sir ,
finally , holding either arm , the two friends walked him very slowly down the garden walk which he had trod with such proud confidence when he received the congratulations of the famous diplomatist only a few hours before .
i found it in the japanese cabinet , as he told the doctor .
there was no trace , however , of anything of the kind , nor could i discover any sign which might indicate the character or intentions of the man who lived in this singular place , save that he must be of spartan habits and cared little for the comforts of life .
what a shrimp it is , to be sure !
we have n't forgotten the shooting of jonas pinto up there .
anything else ?
the double valves with the automatic self adjusting slots are drawn in one of the papers which have been returned .
it was worse than we could have imagined possible .
man or woman ?
where shall i meet you ?
it is very bewildering .
he was insensible , but alive .
he was free of the community from that time on .
it is purely a matter of business .
but i would ask you how did this man know that you lived here , or how to get into your house , or where to hide to get you ?
otherwise the fumes of powder could not have been blown so rapidly through the house .
mrs laura lyons was in her office , and sherlock holmes opened his interview with a frankness and directness which considerably amazed her .
i am conscious myself of a weight at my heart and a feeling of impending danger ever present danger , which is the more terrible because i am unable to define it .
we must wire to mawson 's .
then with a red head of hair , and an appropriate dress , i took my station in the business beggar .
well , we may try you sooner than you think .
you smile , sir , but i assure you that it really would .
it may be enough for most folk but it ai n't enough for me , councillor ,
but i commend the idea to your mind .
in march of that year dr moore agar , of harley street , whose dramatic introduction to holmes i may some day recount , gave positive injunctions that the famous private agent lay aside all his cases and surrender himself to complete rest if he wished to avert an absolute breakdown .
in the latter case , you would expect that some prompting from outside would be needed to make so young a lad do such a thing .
i leave them all the evidence which i found .
in that of mr percy phelps ,
no data yet ,
i have heard nothing of it .