the same afternoon brought a grey headed , seedy visitor , looking like a jew pedlar , who appeared to me to be much excited , and who was closely followed by a slip shod elderly woman .
at this point i agreed with you that it was preposterous , and was glad to find that all my deductions had been correct .
we were engaged after the first walk that we took .
it seems to be a very delicate test ,
to this post a figure was tied , so swathed and muffled in the sheets which had been used to secure it that one could not for the moment tell whether it was that of a man or a woman .
jonathan small must have felt that the peculiar appearance of his companion , however much he may have top coated him , would give rise to gossip , and possibly be associated with this norwood tragedy .
the steps passed along the path on the other side of the wall under which i crouched .
she works it from the front , so that her shadow may never be seen .
my friend smiled and laid his hand upon my arm .
but so long as i am in this chair we shall be a united lodge in word and in deed .
but even now my visit may not be entirely fruitless .
he could talk of the sweet valleys of county monaghan from which he came , of the lovely , distant island , the low hills and green meadows of which seemed the more beautiful when imagination viewed them from this place of grime and snow .
the energetic jones and the ubiquitous reporter have fixed it up between them .
there is not an instant to be lost .
no , she was in her night dress .
at the short account of her father 's death miss morstan had turned deadly white , and for a moment i feared that she was about to faint .
it is well thought of !
no , no horrible !
hayter was a fine old soldier who had seen much of the world , and he soon found , as i had expected , that holmes and he had much in common .
he had put off all questions with a smile , as one who did not wish to have greatness thrust upon him .
ejaculated phelps .
after all , watson ,
you will realize that among your many talents dissimulation finds no place , and that if you had shared my secret you would never have been able to impress smith with the urgent necessity of his presence , which was the vital point of the whole scheme .
i looked at it before ,
we started off for the cab together , leaving our informant incredulous , but obviously uncomfortable .
we slept in a double bedded room , which was the best that the little country inn could do for us .
his grip has been upon me these twenty years , and he has blasted my life .
not social , then ?
they were paying a pound a day each fourteen pounds a week , and this is the slack season .
now , then .
while we made our way along it we heard the rattle of a carriage coming towards us and stood aside to let it pass .
yes , there was a tantalus containing brandy and whisky on the sea chest .
well , i have read something , it is true but i had thought it was a story .
perhaps our visit now may do something to make it less obscure .
nothing stirred over the vast expanse save a pair of ravens , which croaked loudly from a tor behind us .
where do you live ?
you can come up , and i am sorry if my precautions have annoyed you .
the nets are all in place , and the drag is about to begin .
it is really two days since you had the letter .
we shall spend the night in your room , and we shall investigate the cause of this noise which has disturbed you .
it was already dark when we reached it .
green open , white shut .
quite that , sir , in jewels and pearls .
i think i can .
he cried .
i am only , of course , giving you the leading results now of my examination of the paper .
quite so .
but the girl held true to me , and it seemed that i would have had her when the mutiny broke out , and all hell was loose in the country .
i saw the man , too , in the gloom .
but i can assure you that so far as the essentials go the storage of munitions , the preparation for submarine attack , the arrangements for making high explosives nothing is prepared .
on the very day that i had come to this conclusion , i was standing at the criterion bar , when some one tapped me on the shoulder , and turning round i recognized young stamford , who had been a dresser under me at barts .
i was forced to confess that he was right .
the oval seal is undoubtedly a plain sleeve link what else is of such a shape ?
i cannot say that i have .
the assassin convinced them that any attempt to arrest him would lead to the publication of some hideous scandal .
the man giggled in his venomous way .
mortimer had stayed to dinner , and he and the baronet played ecarte afterwards .
in mining .
i was overwhelmed by the honour and attempted , when he entered , to say so , but he plunged at once into business with the air of a man who wishes to hurry quickly through a disagreeable task .
both of them were blue lipped and insensible , with swollen , congested faces and protruding eyes .
the impudent scoundrel !
i just do n't attempt to explain it .
you may then walk to the end of the street , and i will rejoin you in ten minutes .
i have given you all the facts .
tavistock itself lies two miles to the west , while across the moor , also about two miles distant , is the larger training establishment of mapleton , which belongs to lord backwater , and is managed by silas brown .
the man 's appearance would go far with any jury ?
what do you think of that , watson ?
with all the goodwill in the world he may be unable to help you .
he carried them over to the window table , because from there he could see if you came across the courtyard , and so could effect an escape .
do you bring one over .
it was one thing to knock the soldiers over with their muskets in their hands , and it was another to stand by while men were being killed in cold blood .
to his daughter it was unintelligible , and he did not enlighten her .
he never saw any signs of apprehension in mr douglas : on the contrary , he was the most fearless man he had ever known .
robbery had not been the object of the murder , for nothing was taken .
for heaven 's sake do n't get started on a new problem when your nerves are all in shreds .
you must divide it out among yourselves , and do both banks thoroughly .
now , watson , let us sit down and await developments .
it is more painful to me than i can express .
well , i think , doctor , that we may let some light into this dark place , and i believe that the only chance young openshaw has in the meantime is to do what i have told him .
it 's a bonny thing ,
well , so long , brother morris , and may you find things go better with you in the future .
it 's watson ,
my brother , harry pinner , is promoter , and joins the board after allotment as managing director .
in your heart of hearts , do you think that neville is alive ?
well , jack , you are very hot .
have you anything positive to tell him ?
of course a copy is better than the original .
but what do you intend to do ?
no , no , surely not !
where does that bell communicate with ?
the banker wrung his hands .
i think that i must have been rather overacting my delight , and that she detected a hollow ring in my congratulations , for i saw her eyebrows rise a little , and she glanced at me curiously .
a scientific expert would pronounce at once that this was drawn up on a suburban line , since nowhere save in the immediate vicinity of a great city could there be so quick a succession of points .
try canadian pacific railway ,
every word of it .
i have a copy of it here :
i suppose if anything should strike you
so had mr barker .
so it is .
i will do so , and i will show you the steps by which i reached it .
as far as you are personally concerned ,
i want to tell you gentlemen all about it .
i just killed him and lighted out for the coal country .
the village of birlstone is a small and very ancient cluster of half timbered cottages on the northern border of the county of sussex .
where is this brute of a hound which drove him to his death ?
i shall never see them again !
he sat lost in thought , tapping his fingers on the table .
he shuddered , and again made a sound between a cough and a sob .
i have enough already upon my soul since i crossed the threshold of this cursed house .
no , i have never heard of it .
she 's a beautiful woman a very beautiful woman ,
do you think that the duchess had anything to do with the matter ?
i will ,
they are from a blow pipe .
we all turned round at the words .
the man , like mrs stapleton herself , spoke good english , but with a curious lisping accent .
to take the first example to hand , i very clearly perceive that in your bedroom the window is upon the right hand side , and yet i question whether mr lestrade would have noted even so self evident a thing as that .
it needed but this to complete the grim suggestiveness of the barren waste , the chilling wind , and the darkling sky .
one was the fact that his father should , according to his account , cry ' cooee !
it was instantly opened by a bright looking , clean shaven young fellow , who asked him to step in .
holmes had not said one word to me about the tragedy which we had witnessed , but i observed all the morning that he was in his most thoughtful mood , and he gave me the impression , from his vacant eyes and his abstracted manner , of a man who is striving to recall something to his memory .
and mr bender , he was the fust to go , and then indian pete , and then mrs mcgregor , and then johnny hones , and then , dearie , your mother .
perhaps the fault may be partly mine .
has this woman only been here once , constable ?
read them and see if you can doubt the identity of these people .
very clearly .
he took a good look at us all , and then to my amazement he advanced to me and handed me a bundle of paper .
the window was certainly shut and fastened upon the inside .
mary and arthur were much interested and wished to see the famous coronet , but i thought it better not to disturb it .
naturally my first thought was of burglars .
not been long in practice , but has had a good deal to do .
of course we stuck by him , i and dawson , who , with his wife , used to do the book work and the managing .
dear sir :
driving and riding are as natural to me as walking , so i applied at a cabowner 's office , and soon got employment .
i am convinced that his feelings are most deep and most honourable .
man , i 'll admeet that i had my doubts if there was ever an outsider ,
sir charles lay on his face , his arms out , his fingers dug into the ground , and his features convulsed with some strong emotion to such an extent that i could hardly have sworn to his identity .
there was no one at all in the whole house .
i am sure they do .
in what way ?
is it a fact that at the weights bayard could give the other a hundred yards in five furlongs , and that the stable have put their money on him ?
who would have hurt little elsie ?
von bork had mastered his anger .
prove it !
you are certain of that ?
explained his neighbour as he took his seat .
on the other hand , like all these stout , little men who do themselves well , he is a plethoric sleeper .
james h .
stapleton was talking with animation , but the baronet looked pale and distrait .
when the lamps were lit ,
clair is now thirty seven years of age , is a man of temperate habits , a good husband , a very affectionate father , and a man who is popular with all who know him .
the facts are these , mr holmes ,
the charwomen are in the habit of taking off their boots at the commissionnaire 's office , and putting on list slippers .
but i mean no offense .
does that make any impression on your mind ?
holmes smiled at it and shrugged his shoulders in his easy fashion , but i confess that it turned me sick to think of the horrible death which had passed so close to us that night .
you will n't shake hands before i go ?
for two days after this i stayed at home , and my wife appeared to abide loyally by our engagement , for , as far as i know , she never stirred out of the house .
dear mr holmes : i am very anxious to consult you as to whether i should or should not accept a situation which has been offered to me as governess .
he has served the colonel for five years as jockey and for seven as trainer , and has always shown himself to be a zealous and honest servant .
major sholto was the hardest hit .
just read it out to me .
the old lady was too dazed with grief to be of any use to us , but at her side was a white faced young lady , who introduced herself as miss violet westbury , the fiancee of the dead man , and the last to see him upon that fatal night .
but my tastes led me to explore every part of the country round , and i should think that there are few men who know it better than i do .
not much to go on , certainly .
cried he , much excited .
and the ticket , too !
i called about that beggarman , boone the one who was charged with being concerned in the disappearance of mr neville st .
i must really ask you to be a little more quiet !
i have thought sometimes that it was the disposition of her child which weighed upon her mind , for i have never met so utterly spoiled and so ill natured a little creature .
such paper could not be bought under half a crown a packet .
if you had helped justice , instead of thwarting it in this way , you would have had a better chance at your trial .
there are difficulties there are certainly difficulties ,
i fancy that my pal is all right , though i see you have got his coat tails .
thank you .
they left on tuesday .
young smith knew nobody in the neighbourhood , and lived very much as his employer did .
there are two questions waiting for us at the outset .
he would not go farther .
you will excuse my calling so late ,
they are all upon technical subjects .
women are never to be entirely trusted , not the best of them .
it is murder , watson refined , cold blooded , deliberate murder .
but if he is innocent , who has done it ?
you have other injuries , madam !
i 'll have to look a bit closer into this , mister
two years have passed since then , and my life has been until lately lonelier than ever .
so far as i am concerned , i regret nothing and i fear nothing , and i would do it all again and be proud of the job .
it would be quite bright , and people would be about in an hour or so .
let us see if we can do better in london .
high red house with stone facings .
mortimer tregennis considered earnestly for a moment .
the young woman turned over a sheaf of counterfoils .
of course you are .
well , there are plenty of us about .
these youngsters , however , go everywhere and hear everything .
she thinks she does not know the man i am convinced she does .
they paused at the door .
i am perfectly satisfied with your company if you will tolerate mine .
i am not hysterical , nor given to fainting .
no , i cannot .
naturally , the coachman 's first thought , on finding that he could do nothing for his master , was to open the door .
his face was gaunt and swarthy , scored with deep , savage lines .
here , lestrade , your brandy bottle !
you met mr douglas in a boarding house in london , did you not , and became engaged to him there ?
, and boarded the s .
how terms of what in another man i should call laziness alternate with your fits of splendid energy and vigor .
and the more i thought of what had happened , the wilder and darker it grew .
i claim urgency !
all was still and dark , save only that brilliant yellow screen in front of us with the black figure outlined upon its centre .
but between ourselves , windibank , it was as cruel and selfish and heartless a trick in a petty way as ever came before me .
it was a gaunt , aquiline face which was turned towards us , with piercing dark eyes , which lurked in deep hollows under overhung and tufted brows .
well , you have to be in the office , or at least in the building , the whole time .
the robber must have just burst open the door the lock has been forced when william came upon him .
i saw , with my own eyes , that two went down the path and none returned .
he had drunk off his glass and had turned to go , when his eyes fell upon the face of jack mcmurdo , who was scowling at his elbow .
our conversation was hampered by the presence of the driver of the hired wagonette , so that we were forced to talk of trivial matters when our nerves were tense with emotion and anticipation .
he rose and seized his astrakhan coat .
about this girl , miss holder .
the landlady thought for a moment .
i remembered holmes 's injunction .
i could not have believed that you would have descended to this .
i saw no necessity to disturb them but i was pleased to hear that the lady was not visibly pining and that she had partaken of an excellent dinner .
and now , my long suffering readers , i will ask you to come away with me for a time , far from the sussex manor house of birlstone , and far also from the year of grace in which we made our eventful journey which ended with the strange story of the man who had been known as john douglas .
i am only a student a man of dreams i cannot explain the practical things of life .
ah , here he is !
there is no prospect of danger , or i should not dream of stirring out without you .
after all , that is nothing petty larceny , six months at the most .
thence he drove to scotland yard , but , instead of entering , he sat in his cab with his brows drawn down , lost in profound thought .
he made the country down in illinois , and he made the missouri ,
then , suddenly realising the full purport of his words , she gave a violent start and looked up , with fear and astonishment upon her broad , good humoured face .
the man that was clever enough to hunt me down is clever enough to pick an iron box from the bottom of a river .
if that were so , and it seems most probable , only a man who had lost his wits would have run from the house instead of towards it .
do n't you scare yourself ,
i will n't weary you with the account of how we bargained and negotiated .
i may mention that her husband had left her comfortably off , and that she had a capital of about four thousand five hundred pounds , which had been so well invested by him that it returned an average of seven per cent .
so steep were the rocky banks on either side of them , that the larch and the pine seemed to be suspended over their heads , and to need only a gust of wind to come hurtling down upon them .
the police have openly confessed that they can at present make nothing of it .
of course , doctor watson , this is strictly between ourselves .
i 'll take that book and pack it with the rest .
i do not think that i have ever seen so thin a man .
have you no more to add ?
on the deal boards of the carpetless floor there was outlined a fresh track of blood .
if it had not been for her coming , i should not have known where his hiding place was .
the lady could talk english fairly well .
i dare say my face looked as bewildered as yours did just now when first i read this message .
i have it here in my pocket .
a holder ?
let us hear what you have to say .
here is the brougham coming round the corner .
we were ushered through the magnificent elizabethan doorway and into his grace 's study .
she held her ground firmly .
kindly look her up in my index , doctor ,
i certainly wrote to him once or twice to acknowledge his delicacy and his generosity .
that was before he broke the pledge but afterwards he would always take drink when he was ashore , and a little drink would send him stark , staring mad .
you have followed me wonderfully !
the european secretary burst excitedly into the room .
sherlock holmes was a man , however , who , when he had an unsolved problem upon his mind , would go for days , and even for a week , without rest , turning it over , rearranging his facts , looking at it from every point of view until he had either fathomed it or convinced himself that his data were insufficient .
she remembered hearing some sound which she imagined to be the slamming of a door .
suddenly we looked down into a cuplike depression , patched with stunted oaks and firs which had been twisted and bent by the fury of years of storm .
mr rucastle then , i presume , took to this system of imprisonment ?
yes , mrs hudson was right .
you could have got fifteen to one yesterday , but the price has become shorter and shorter , until you can hardly get three to one now .
observed bradstreet thoughtfully .
he rose also and looked at me in silence , shaking his head sadly .
just as he finished , however , we drove through two scattered villages , where a few lights still glimmered in the windows .
he wished us to leave him alone .
officer in charge here day and night .
a distinct touch !
you remember parker , who used to be coxon 's manager ?
all right ,
but i confess that i do n't see how you arrived at it .
as he spoke he turned the contents of the wine glass into a saucer and placed it in front of the terrier , who speedily licked it dry .
from within he extracted a dumb bell , which he tossed down to its fellow in the corner .
mrs rucastle seemed to me to be colourless in mind as well as in feature .
very good , brother morris .
he walked over from the station , and was admitted by my faithful lal chowdar , who is now dead .
the youth moved in the best society had , so far as was known , no enemies and no particular vices .
was he the agent of others or had he some sinister design of his own ?
we shall go and look him up .
one murphy , a gipsy horse dealer , was on the moor at no great distance at the time , but he appears by his own confession to have been the worse for drink .
of their terrible chief few details came out during the proceedings , and if i have now been compelled to make a clear statement of his career it is due to those injudicious champions who have endeavored to clear his memory by attacks upon him whom i shall ever regard as the best and the wisest man whom i have ever known .
on the contrary , the evidence is that he avoided the moor .
would you care to try it ?
and she was afterwards seen walking into hyde park in company with flora millar , a woman who is now in custody , and who had already made a disturbance at mr doran 's house that morning .
but i 'm glad to hear that the young lord was heard of in liverpool , and i 'll help you to take the news to the hall .
it seems to show that someone knows more than we do about what goes on upon the moor ,
and what did they take ?
it is not of this world .
he swelled and puffed in his anger .
is a rather curious person ,
help me , mr holmes !
the words are written with a broad pointed , violet tinted pencil of a not unusual pattern .
it was my game to watch stapleton .
i heard that barclay had married nancy , and that he was rising rapidly in the regiment , but even that did not make me speak .
he found out where sholto lived , and very possibly he established communications with some one inside the house .
he might , sir , but it were n't his way .
what is this ?
what was that ?
when we reached it they walked along the parade , and i was never more than a hundred yards from them .
tell him that a full confession is his only chance of forgiveness .
holmes held the lamp towards it .
it is nearly five now .
modern criticism has more than indorsed the high opinion formed of him by his contemporaries .
stapleton had abandoned the chase and came back to us breathing hard and flushed with his exertions .
at the station .
but i could not afford to fail .
are you going to bed , holmes ?
even stapleton 's attempt upon sir henry that night which ended in the death of the unfortunate convict did not help us much in proving murder against our man .
why , dear me , it sounds quite hollow !
you 're not looking quite yourself .
we will be shown into the sitting room to wait for the lady , but it is probable that when she comes she may find neither us nor the photograph .
the fierce flash of her eyes said more than any words .
holmes smiled .
it was a splendid chance of putting your theories into practice , mr sherlock holmes .
the rooms were carefully examined , and results all pointed to an abominable crime .
that is certain .
a starting point for our investigation .
ah , you 're one that has wasted your gifts , you have !
he was cold , but not harsh .
what all this meant i could not imagine , but i was deeply ashamed to have witnessed so intimate a scene without my friend 's knowledge .
that 's good impartial evidence , ai n't it ?
if i cannot persuade you to take a lenient view of the matter , lord st .
holmes leaned back in his chair , placed his finger tips together , and closed his eyes , with an air of resignation .
he whispered .
it 's all or none .
sherlock holmes looked slowly round , and his face assumed an ominous expression .
a formidable array of bottles and test tubes , with the pungent cleanly smell of hydrochloric acid , told me that he had spent his day in the chemical work which was so dear to him .
you cannot think the wonderful secrets which it contains .
yes , but they were paid off .
it is all surmise .
he was good company , i will n't deny it , and he had wonderful polite ways with him for a sailor man , so that i think there must have been a time when he knew more of the poop than the forecastle .
they all agreed that it was a huge creature , luminous , ghastly , and spectral .
that 's so .
is briony lodge , serpentine avenue , st .
beacons of the future !
yes , it came within a few minutes of your leaving .
remained at the hotel .
holmes popped a sheet of paper before the doctor 's eyes .
but , surely , you said that it was a new brown boot ?
on the contrary , she spoke of him with such bitterness that she was unconsciously considerably strengthening the case of the police for , of course , if her son had heard her speak of the man in this fashion , it would predispose him towards hatred and violence .
i have the right to private judgment , but he has none .
i suppose you have n't such a thing as a carriage in your stables ?
a clever man upon so delicate an errand has no use for a beard save to conceal his features .
the hissing of a kettle upon the stove rose sharp and strident to the ear .
they talked together in whispers .
now the red rim of the sun pushes itself over the london cloud bank .
you are screening your stepfather .
sir henry and i held out our hands to it , for we were numb from our long drive .
here it is ,
he was born in ' fifty years of age .
this may be some trifling intrigue , and i cannot break my other important research for the sake of it .
when a moment later i saw your eyes wander away from the picture , i suspected that your mind had now turned to the civil war , and when i observed that your lips set , your eyes sparkled , and your hands clenched i was positive that you were indeed thinking of the gallantry which was shown by both sides in that desperate struggle .
and the first ?
heaven knows what the objects of his studies are .
good bye !
and that is ?
baskerville sat for a long time , his eyes fixed upon it , and i read upon his eager face how much it meant to him , this first sight of that strange spot where the men of his blood had held sway so long and left their mark so deep .
i had been drinking hard of late , and the two things together fairly turned my brain .
is it possible that even now , when i give you these results , you are unable to see how they are attained ?
i cannot tell where it came from perhaps from the next room , perhaps from the lawn .
they had been warned to be on their guard against bloodhounds so they moved forward cautiously , with their pistols cocked in their hands .
then to birlstone we must go !
he has broken the rules in some fashion .
by george !
there are evidently only two of them in it .
i have seen the boy again and again with his bundle .
again and again he strove to break away , but i as often headed him off .
i do n't see you in the witnessbox .
his victims dare not hit back .
mrs rucastle is not mad .
but as i was doing it it seemed to me better to leave it alone and get away , for the thing might look black against me , and any way my secret would be out if i were taken .
there are stories of her which i would fain disbelieve stories that she is sealed to some gentile .
if i were to see my father in one of these dreadful seizures i am convinced that i should never survive it .
that which my son himself indicated that of the cupboard of the lumber room .
anything else ?
it instantly flashed across my mind that the box might have been meant for one of these .
we were all astonished by the appearance of the apartment into which he invited us .
mrs stapleton has heard her husband discuss the problem on several occasions .
that sounds more like sanity .
there is no reason whatever to suspect foul play , or to imagine that death could be from any but natural causes .
the records of your detective have reached us here , and you could not celebrate him without being known yourself .
my landlady down fratton way had some inquiries , and when i heard of it i guessed it was time for me to hustle .
i involuntarily echoed .
we halted and listened .
with your assent , i will put one or two of these papers in my pocket , in case they should bear upon our future inquiry .
yet there was much around to interest us , for we were passing through as singular a countryside as any in england , where a few scattered cottages represented the population of to day , while on every hand enormous square towered churches bristled up from the flat green landscape and told of the glory and prosperity of old east anglia .
tell us , then , how cadogan west met his end before you laid him upon the roof of a railway carriage .
no , i cannot .
a red square of light had sprung out of the darkness .
a most painful matter to me , as you can most readily imagine , mr holmes .
if i am here at six it will do , i suppose ?
the latter peculiarity took the form of a dislike to being left alone , especially after dark .
this is very extraordinary conduct , mr latimer , ' i stammered .
however , i determined to act on the idea .
kindly ring the bell !
with the death of garcia , the pursuit might cease , since such a death might frighten others from the task .
i have another set of vices when i 'm well , but those are the principal ones at present .
instead of the .
she had gone to bed at half past ten .
she made no outcry whatever .
sir , i can stand this strain no longer i shall go mad if it continues .
they used to send father tickets when he was alive , and then afterwards they remembered us , and sent them to mother .
then it was barred after them .
you got it , then ?
we can be perfectly frank with each other .
we have an open carriage outside , and as you would no doubt like to see the place before the light fails , we might talk it over as we drive .
the next word is ' pig 's bristles .
very likely not .
well , i told you just now that there is a cottage not far from our house .
i got past it and got one in with my stick that crushed his head like an egg .
well , bar the expression , that might almost be a description of douglas himself ,
my heart softened to him , but again the thought of his treasure turned me hard and bitter .
there was his crime what was to be his punishment ?
i should be proud and happy ,
there 's a constable in possession ,
i should like these dates a little clearer ,
it is always a joy to meet an american , mr moulton , for i am one of those who believe that the folly of a monarch and the blundering of a minister in far gone years will not prevent our children from being some day citizens of the same world wide country under a flag which shall be a quartering of the union jack with the stars and stripes .
he would naturally use the first words which came to his mind , and if there were so many which referred to sport among them , you may be tolerably sure that he is either an ardent shot or interested in breeding .
ask him first of all whether he is prepared to sign the papers ?
my dear watson , you know how bored i have been since we locked up colonel carruthers .
no , it is not even attached to a wire .
now her marriage would mean , of course , the loss of a hundred a year , so what does her stepfather do to prevent it ?
you can tell me any message you have for him .
a stable boy had run out to the horse 's head , and springing down , i followed holmes up the small , winding gravel drive which led to the house .
for once he dug in vain into that mine of varied information .
with a smiling face and a heart of marble , he will squeeze and squeeze until he has drained them dry .
when our visitor had disappeared , sherlock holmes 's movements were such as to rivet our attention .
twenty .
you were satisfied that he could not have been concealed in the room all the time , or in the corridor which you have just described as dimly lighted ?
there are no trains before six in the morning so he can n't get away by rail .
you can write me down an ass this time , watson ,
capital !
i fancy that , for some few years , you will find your time very fully occupied ,
then we solemnly renewed our oath to stand by each other and be true to our secret .
because there was no reliable test .
how well they succeeded , and how quickly i took advantage of it , are still fresh in your recollection .
for my sake , for god 's sake , give it up !
very much so .
we made careful note of the place , and next day i drew four plans , one for each of us , and put the sign of the four of us at the bottom , for we had sworn that we should each always act for all , so that none might take advantage .
you will persuade him to come .
i wrote it , to bring you here .
he appears to have broken his neck by falling over these rocks .
then suddenly , about five minutes later , there came a most horrible yell the most dreadful sound , mr holmes , that ever i heard .
so now i was in possession of c , o , and m , and i was in a position to attack the first message once more , dividing it into words and putting dots for each symbol which was still unknown .
fool that i was not to allow for that earlier train !
the tragedy , then , occurred on wednesday or tuesday , or earlier .
alas , holmes , i fear that it is one of sin and shame !
that some little time ago , when i read you the passage in one of poe 's sketches , in which a close reasoner follows the unspoken thought of his companion , you were inclined to treat the matter as a mere tour de force of the author .
none of us alluded during dinner to the cause which had brought us together .
he cried , clapping his hands , and looking as delighted as a child with a new toy .
mr phelps can have the spare bedroom to night , and i will be with you in time for breakfast , for there is a train which will take me into waterloo at eight .
that they belong to a woman i infer from their delicacy , and also , of course , from the last words of the dying man .
you see how it is with me , and you know just as much about the matter as i do .
scanlan , the small , sharp faced , nervous , black eyed man , seemed glad to see him once more .
the fact that several rough looking men called during that time and inquired for captain basil made me understand that holmes was working somewhere under one of the numerous disguises and names with which he concealed his own formidable identity .
no one saw him arrive , so far as we can learn but he need not pass through the village to reach the park gates , and there are many cyclists upon the road .
i thought it might have reached your ears .
with that ?
beside it lay some cooking utensils and a bucket half full of water .
i can give you every information ,
when we got there we looked into that dreadful room .
quite so .
we must push on , watson .
schade dass die natur nur einen mensch aus dir schuf , denn zum wuerdigen mann war und zum schelmen der stoff .
then possibly my answer has crossed yours , ' i replied .
we know , brother , by your sign and by your countersign that you are indeed one of us ,
no one else in england , mr holmes , i assure you .
i was driven over by my employer , who was as amiable as ever , and was introduced by him that evening to his wife and the child .
he chuckled as he poured out the coffee .
surely it is final as regards the man 's death .
it 's a lesson in being practical , mr mac .
i did not gain very much , however , by my inspection .
it was marked , however , at the outset by an incident which left the most sinister impression upon my mind .
the lining had been of red silk , but was a good deal discoloured .
but i understand that all the other clothes were found in the room .
because in five minutes you will say that it is all so absurdly simple .
there 's the cab , hopkins , and you can remove your man .
i seated myself in his armchair and warmed my hands before his crackling fire , for a sharp frost had set in , and the windows were thick with the ice crystals .
i cannot recall the name .
oberstein had a short life preserver .
to hear a hound upon the moor would not work a hard man like this convict into such a paroxysm of terror that he would risk recapture by screaming wildly for help .
and he left five years ago the date is on the stick .
i have not observed the quarter mile posts ,
at the foot of kennington lane they had edged away to the left through bond street and miles street .
well , what are we to do now ?
yes , they all went except you and me .
whispered mcmurdo , who had devised a safe hiding place under the floor .
that 's why i give you water .
but how came he to have so singular a companion ?
and once again , if the thought of leaving a bicycle concealed outside had occurred to you , would it really have seemed worth doing when the dullest detective would naturally say this is an obvious blind , as the bicycle is the first thing which the fugitive needed in order to make his escape .
holmes stretched out his hand for the manuscript and flattened it upon his knee .
thank you ,
but i am prepared to bet that you will not guess the form that my exercise has taken .
i was staring at the strange message which i had scrawled , as he deciphered it , upon a sheet of foolscap on my knee .
in height strongly built , sallow complexion , black hair , a little bald in the centre , bushy , black side whiskers and moustache tinted glasses , slight infirmity of speech .
by jove !
they were on the upper floor , and from our window we could command a view of the avenue gate , and of the inhabited wing of stoke moran manor house .
i 'd have waited a little longer if it had n't come to my knowledge that my secret was coming out .
i can n't leave here .
that is a state secret of the utmost importance , and i fear that i cannot tell you , nor do i see that it is necessary .
but in calling moriarty a criminal you are uttering libel in the eyes of the law and there lie the glory and the wonder of it !
at the door of the house we were met by a tall , white faced , flaxen haired man , with a notebook in his hand , who rushed forward and wrung my companion 's hand with effusion .
someone suggested .
he purred .
sergeant wilson had all the facts .
i am very much afraid that it is not .
it 's not far , i believe .
the night was fine , and the stars were twinkling brightly overhead .
he would know that he could overtake him .
it was a pretty expensive joke for them , for it cost them two and thirty pounds .
their secret was known to no one save to me and to one excellent servant , who has at present gone for assistance to trumpington .
i had almost decided upon this , when he solved the problem for me .
there is a mystery about this which stimulates the imagination where there is no imagination there is no horror .
it has been said there is nothing appertaining to life upon the broad plain .
i came to you that morning in order to understand the full enormity of my offence .
again the ground sloped , and again we came on the tracks .
but i am justified in taking my own line and i will .
it is too dangerous he suspects me .
to the trained eye there is as much difference between the black ash of a trichinopoly and the white fluff of bird 's eye as there is between a cabbage and a potato .
why should it break three inches from the top , as this one has done ?
but i could not help overhearing the questions which you put to the salesman just now .
it is one of those instances where the reasoner can produce an effect which seems remarkable to his neighbor , because the latter has missed the one little point which is the basis of the deduction .
still , it may be as you say .
i start them from the day which succeeded that upon which i had established two facts of great importance , the one that mrs laura lyons of coombe tracey had written to sir charles baskerville and made an appointment with him at the very place and hour that he met his death , the other that the lurking man upon the moor was to be found among the stone huts upon the hillside .
i 'll go upstairs and finish him first .
look at this , watson ,
we rushed along the pavement , bare headed as we were , and at the far corner we found a policeman standing .
coupled with this distortion of the face , this hippocratic smile , or ' risus sardonicus , ' as the old writers called it , what conclusion would it suggest to your mind ?
now i 'll be getting home .
i do not think that it is likely .
he held down the lamp to the floor , and as he did so i saw for the second time that night a startled , surprised look come over his face .
what is it but a war between us and them , and we hit back where we best can .
it has never been transfixed .
we must apologize for having intruded upon you , professor coram , and i promise that we will n't disturb you until after lunch .
was i right ?
i signed the paper as directed , and the lawyer took it away with him .
well , it is possible , no doubt ,
his bright humor marked the reaction from his black depression of the preceding days .
those were his very words , sir ' you 'll only need to wait a little longer , ' says i .
a promise is a promise , mr holmes .
i shall be surprised if we do n't get some help down there .
of course i will do it .
but i have greater trust in your judgment than in my own , eminent bodymaster , and i promise you that i will not offend again .
but they will n't let us leave ,
he telegraphed to me from london that he had arrived all safe , and directed me to come down at once , giving the langham hotel as his address .
folk may be friends o yours , and yet no friends o the master 's .
he was to reach liverpool street at one twenty .
i read suspicion there and annoyance , but no jest .
these rocks upon the right make an admirable screen .
good boy ,
the official looked at them with a puzzled expression .
i do n't think that i am a coward , watson , but that sound seemed to freeze my very blood .
broad , low tables were scattered about , which bristled with retorts , test tubes , and little bunsen lamps , with their blue flickering flames .
it was the sob of a woman , the muffled , strangling gasp of one who is torn by an uncontrollable sorrow .
the public not unnaturally goes on the principle that he who would heal others must himself be whole , and looks askance at the curative powers of the man whose own case is beyond the reach of his drugs .
when he left me .
there 's no mistaking that fluffy ash upon your coat .
your features and especially your eyes .
i still heard all the news from pondicherry lodge , and for some years there was no news to hear , except that they were hunting for the treasure .
better have your ham and eggs first .
it was my father who was really concerned .
there came a gentle flow of soothing explanation from the butler .
did he observe the appearance of these men did he hear them talk ?
one of them seized the little girl , and hoisted her upon his shoulder , while two others supported her gaunt companion , and assisted him towards the waggons .
well , sir , you have been very fair spoken to me , though i can see that i have you to thank that i have these bracelets upon my wrists .
why is he silent , then , if he is innocent ?
the garden was bounded by a three foot brick wall with a fringe of wood rails upon the top , and against this wall was leaning a stalwart police constable , surrounded by a small knot of loafers , who craned their necks and strained their eyes in the vain hope of catching some glimpse of the proceedings within .
i 've the badge of shame on my forearm and something worse branded on my heart .
so i read the riddle .
he will not try to escape .
i am simply applying to ordinary life a few of those precepts of observation and deduction which i advocated in that article .
this man had offered me marriage on condition that i could get a divorce from my husband .
bewildered and stunned by this blow , jefferson hope felt his head spin round , and had to lean upon his rifle to save himself from falling .
the only approach to the house was over a drawbridge , the chains and windlass of which had long been rusted and broken .
so omnipotent and unchallenged had they been that the very thought that there was possible retribution in the background had been banished from their minds .
is he quiet ?
this is of interest , watson .
well , let 's hear the argument .
what i wished to say was that mr woodley was perfectly odious , but that mr carruthers , who was a much older man , was more agreeable .
then will come the greatest criminal trial of the century , the clearing up of over forty mysteries , and the rope for all of them but if we move at all prematurely , you understand , they may slip out of our hands even at the last moment .
in an instant his strange headgear began to move , and there reared itself from among his hair the squat diamond shaped head and puffed neck of a loathsome serpent .
i remember that he refused to accept any settlement from sir charles , though he pressed it upon him .
oh , heaven bless you !
holmes smiled his appreciation .
anatomy .
the boy who takes this note could no doubt forward your telegram .
very clearly i could see in my mind 's eye that shattered figure on the floor .
for i entered by the side door .
it is very neatly tied .
too much !
but he must have been hard put to it when miss burnet broke away .
one morning a young girl called , fashionably dressed , and stayed for half an hour or more .
what age would he be ?
we 've laid the family ghost once and forever .
beside it is written , in very rough and coarse characters , ' the sign of the four , jonathan small , mahomet singh , abdullah khan , dost akbar .
say in an hour .
you can do nothing before monday .
by no means .
sherlock holmes was not very communicative during the long drive and lay back in the cab humming the tunes which he had heard in the afternoon .
he was acutely uneasy if he were absent from her for a day .
signor castalotte was a bachelor , and i believe that he felt as if gennaro was his son , and both my husband and i loved him as if he were our father .
thank you .
it is just possible that
i confess that this is entirely new to me , your grace .
the invalid sank back upon his cushions , tired out by this long recital , while his nurse poured him out a glass of some stimulating medicine .
the inspector here has done all that could possibly be suggested , but i wish to leave no stone unturned in trying to avenge poor straker and in recovering my horse .
the two detectives shook their heads .
we might deduce it from the mere character of the one hand as compared with the other .
the window of the room in which they sat was closed , but the blind was not drawn down .
probably he acted as i suggest .
she paused , and then suddenly her face lit up with pride and delight .
for god 's sake , jack !
very good .
here and there one hears a question .
no , there was no attempt at robbery .
he in turn had friends among the indoor servants who unite in their fear and dislike of their master .
our lady enters the room , advances to the bureau , and either opens it or tries to do so .
this fellow is madly , insanely , in love with her , but some two years ago , when he was only a lad , and before he really knew her , for she had been away five years at a boarding school , what does the idiot do but get into the clutches of a barmaid in bristol and marry her at a registry office ?
resisting stapleton 's offer of hospitality , holmes and i set off to baskerville hall , leaving the naturalist to return alone .
do n't wait up for me in case i should be late .
if your majesty would condescend to state your case ,
what , the three randalls ?
colonel barclay himself seems to have had some singular traits in his character .
as far as the church door he brought her , and then , as he could go no farther , he conveniently vanished away by the old trick of stepping in at one door of a four wheeler and out at the other .
how , and by whom ?
it shall be found , sir i promise you that if you will have a little patience it will be found .
he mounted the steps , and , seizing a rafter with either hand , he swung himself up into the garret .
at our hail the man in the stern sprang up from the deck and shook his two clinched fists at us , cursing the while in a high , cracked voice .
i must tell her that all is well .
come along !
occasionally , it is of service , to day , for example , i should have come to very ignominious grief without it .
nearer seven .
if the young lady has a brother or a friend , he ought to lay a whip across your shoulders .
yes , i will help you .
i can do nothing for myself .
you see ,
he was a patentee of the openshaw unbreakable tire , and his business met with such success that he was able to sell it and to retire upon a handsome competence .
yes , sir i may say that i noticed that the slippers were stained with blood so indeed were my own .
i am inclined now to have a little amusement at his expense .
we have an inspector who makes a specialty of saffron hill and the italian quarter .
it is no joke when a tall man has to take a foot off his stature for several hours on end .
already i seemed to see our nets drawing closer around that leanjawed pike .
i have n't got a bicycle .
cried the doctor .
known to have been employed in an office in leadenhall street .
he 's awful fond of me .
this is certainly very novel ,
you thieves !
or was it some one who was with the thief who did it in order to prevent the crime ?
i have nothing to hide from you , gentlemen ,
you may possibly have heard my name from our mutual friend , mortimer .
if he were acting through a human agent we could get some evidence , but if we were to drag this great dog to the light of day it would not help us in putting a rope round the neck of its master .
the pen has spluttered twice in a single word and has run dry three times in a short address , showing that there was very little ink in the bottle .
so far as they knew , there had never been any quarrel between husband and wife .
we had got as far as this , when who should walk in but the gentleman himself , who had been drinking his beer in the tap room and had heard the whole conversation .
the seven pale , rigid faces looked up at him .
i see that the cab is at the door .
the man who wrote all his words first is undoubtedly the man who planned the affair .
he flattened it out upon the table , and a cry of triumph burst from his lips .
i suppose you realize , mr sherlock holmes ,
i am sure that if you mentioned my name they would be happy to show it to you .
i drew aside my curtains before i went to bed and looked out from my window .
the address , you observe is printed in rough characters .
mr horace harker is a customer of ours .
he followed one for a mile or more until he came to a mountain torrent which he was sure that he had never seen before .
it at least bears out the theory that it is on the side of the lower gill moor that we must hope for results .
he straightened himself then , and i saw that what he held in his hand was a sort of gun , with a curiously misshapen butt .
that he was most unwilling to do .
he spoke with a smile , but i seemed to read in his eyes that he took the matter more seriously .
the firemen had been much perturbed at the strange arrangements which they had found within , and still more so by discovering a newly severed human thumb upon a window sill of the second floor .
this letter was laid with others upon the study table , and i myself put them in the post bag .
i glanced at holmes on hearing the description of the murderer , which tallied so exactly with his own .
this young man could not talk a word of greek .
a couple of months at the outside .
i expect you meant kindly by speaking to me like this .
our search was not a very long one .
beppo had the pearl in his possession .
it is an old maxim of mine that when you have excluded the impossible , whatever remains , however improbable , must be the truth .
look here , watson !
you put the matter more flippantly , mr holmes , than you would probably do if you were brought into personal contact with these things .
lestrade shrugged his shoulders .
it might have been done under such pledges as would have prevented him from speaking of it , and yet would have affected his thoughts in the direction indicated by his remarks to his fiancee .
deceit , according to him , was an impossibility in the case of one trained to observation and analysis .
he looked at the maid .
i shall stay here , as i have this handkerchief in my hand .
i remember hearing it talked of in the city .
i cared nothing for him .
that 's just inspiration : not business .
and the hound ?
i had no idea that so gigantic a sum was involved ,
it is finished !
we earned a living at this time by my exhibiting poor tonga at fairs and other such places as the black cannibal .
all right , mr hayes , no harm meant ,
but how do you know he 'll be there when we return ?
she 's as trim a little thing as any on the river .
how long have you allowed us to waste ourselves upon a search that you knew to be an absurd one ?
i shall probably call athelney jones in at the last moment .
it was a fine , thick piece of wood , bulbous headed , of the sort which is known as a penang lawyer . just under the head was a broad silver band nearly an inch across .
thank you , we are both very well ,
its splendour was in such contrast to his homely ways and simple life that i could not help commenting upon it .
you have made no progress ?
he began , but mastered his anger and resumed his seat .
no , i had a dozen .
the other was his singular dying reference to a rat .
neither address nor date is attached to it .
but it is evident to me that the logical way to approach the case is to begin by trying to throw some light upon the first incident the curious will , so suddenly made , and to so unexpected an heir .
there was absolutely no clue of any kind .
and then , as a second thought , why should she come at all ?
we were conscious of a long scrutiny out of the darkness .
have you that fresh drawing ?
but my heart was flint , for he endured nothing which my innocent darling had not felt before him .
it is frightening her to death .
the culprit is
you can understand ,
why not go right down now and fix him ?
the hound !
was it from mr wilder that he learned so extraordinary a device ?
i think that we may judge lord st .
who are you , sir ?
the man is not a burglar , supposing that he ever existed .
he cried .
we picked our way among groups of dirty children , and through lines of discoloured linen , until we came to number , the door of which was decorated with a small slip of brass on which the name rance was engraved .
tonight we can only perform the last offices to our poor friend .
i told you that you should go to blackheath first and norwood afterwards .
you will tell me if you have any news to morrow .
in this way we get over the objection that no one would take originals when he could make copies .
you proposed this arrangement , so you must not hold me responsible .
i tell you that you will never beat me .
remember you !
it came just as we had finished our tea .
he continued .
how about moving that drugget ?
i have them here ,
yes , my correspondence has certainly the charm of variety ,
holmes was sunk in profound thought , and hardly opened his mouth until we had passed clapham junction .
but have you never been prosecuted for begging ?
when he turned his face mcmurdo saw that it was brother morris , he who had incurred the anger of the bodymaster the night before .
it is fortunate that you are old school fellows , as you must have much to talk over .
have you seen all you want of the study ?
but i am not convinced of it .
and yet it was not entirely a question of imagination ,
ah , then , we 'll step over afterwards ,
after we had counted our treasures we put them back into the chest and carried them to the gate way to show them to mahomet singh .
it strikes me , williamson , there is n't very much that we can tell this gentleman ,
it was to him i was to tell it ,
i trust that you are as comfortable as circumstances permit ,
when at last he was liberated , it was only to find that drebber 's house was deserted , and that he and his secretary had departed for europe .
no , sir , i do n't know that .
well , it is not for me to judge you ,
the cunninghams joined us , as you doubtless remember , outside the kitchen door .
i 'll tell you , acushla ,
all is well that ends well ,
but for the fortunate chance of the dying man having seized these , i am not sure that we could ever have reached our solution .
do not allow yourself to indulge in false hopes , mr phelps .
the chimney is wide , but is barred up by four large staples .
obviously the business was a bad one , and one of the men who distrusted the other was determined that , whatever was done , each should have an equal hand in it .
as to the stick , mr holmes , you know as well as i do that a criminal is often flurried , and does such things , which a cool man would avoid .
it is when he is on a scent and is not quite absolutely sure yet that it is the right one that he is most taciturn .
this at least was real , but it might have been the work of a protecting friend as easily as of an enemy .
hudson it is , sir ,
here is the address jacob shafter , sheridan street .
beside it was a bare flagstaff , and underneath it a man , his hat drawn down and the collar of his overcoat turned up .
she had flung into the lake a bag containing some curious contents .
well , this dead man had some catholic emblem round his neck , and that , along with his colour , made me think he was from the south .
there was a rush , a clatter upon the stairs , the bang of a door , and the crisp rattle of running footfalls from the street .
your morning letters , if i remember right , were from a fish monger and a tide waiter .
being a heavy stick the dog has held it tightly by the middle , and the marks of his teeth are very plainly visible .
you remember when the stand fell at doncaster ?
the inspector and two men accompanied her back , and in spite of the continued resistance of the proprietor , they made their way to the room in which mr st .
my dear holmes ,
he tossed it forward on to the table .
let me have a report by wire at baker street before evening .
when i returned to london i called upon the milliner , who had recognized straker as an excellent customer of the name of derbyshire , who had a very dashing wife , with a strong partiality for expensive dresses .
if this fellow had been left to his own unaided devices this affair might have taken an even more ghastly turn .
indeed , my only wonder was that he had not already been mixed up in this extraordinary case , which was the one topic of conversation through the length and breadth of england .
that is where old mrs bernstone sits .
well , you nearly had a worse one , for i believe they are not far off me .
far away , miles off , in the direction of grimpen , a single steady yellow light was shining .
then we 'll look into this matter together .
so far so far , watson .
i got your telegram , and i came at the hour you said .
your servant , gentlemen .
yet , as you say , the money would save our commissions handsomely .
at one end a minstrel 's gallery overlooked it .
mediocrity knows nothing higher than itself but talent instantly recognizes genius , and macdonald had talent enough for his profession to enable him to perceive that there was no humiliation in seeking the assistance of one who already stood alone in europe , both in his gifts and in his experience .
i mention this small episode because it assumes some importance in view of the tragedy which followed , but i was convinced at the time that the matter was entirely trivial and that his excitement had no justification .
you see , it is not fastened down , only just laid there .
it has all come to nothing .
he crept away , his face sunk upon his breast , like a broken man , while i put out the light and returned to my room .
i held it as he had done , and stared out into the darkness of the night .
watson here knows more about my methods than you do , but i fear that even he has not quite grasped the significance of this sentence .
that other man again !
i 'm speaking of james stanger of the herald .
it was just half past eleven .
at five .
for some reason , woodley was chosen as the husband .
excellent !
have seen the face again at the window .
these editors hang together , and every journal in the state would be crying out for police and troops .
she asks for a hundred pounds , and endeavors to buy them off .
we tore away his collar , and holmes breathed a prayer of gratitude when we saw that there was no sign of a wound and that the rescue had been in time .
incredible as it may appear to you , mr holmes , he was honestly convinced that a dreadful fate overhung his family , and certainly the records which he was able to give of his ancestors were not encouraging .
it was known that she was an english lady who had met mr douglas in london , he being at that time a widower .
he lives in it .
in the first place , three of you came from south africa on this game you williamson , you carruthers , and woodley .
i should say from what we have heard , that we are dealing with a particularly dangerous gang .
this business has had a very bad effect upon him .
i think , inspector ,
he cried .
mr cunningham , looking out of his bedroom , saw the fellow as he gained the road , but lost sight of him at once .
this woman might , for all i knew , be a monomaniac .
the whole place was depressing .
and very recently discharged ,
but they 've found his bicycle .
but here , unless i am mistaken , is our client .
it 's a boarding house that was recommended by a man i knew in chicago .
i should not have thought there were so many in the whole country as were brought together by that single advertisement .
did you know mrs douglas before her marriage ?
i say , holmes , you must confess that you cut it rather fine .
have you ever read of jonathan wild ?
what was the relation between them , and what the object of his repeated visits ?
but why should he think that this disease which he has contracted is eastern ?
they were about to resume their journey when one of the youngest and keenest eyed uttered an exclamation and pointed up at the rugged crag above them .
the recurring words ,
he fired and missed me .
suppose i had been first , ettie , would i have had a chance ?
he slowed also .
because there are many inquiries which must be made out here .
, by barraud , of london .
now read the postscript .
at the moment , however , we had no thought for the old chest , for our eyes were riveted upon that which crouched beside it .
there would be no reason in his eyes why the finding of the ring should be connected with the murder .
it is so .
who is he ?
do n't you ?
he has followed me , then .
when the commissionaire had gone , holmes took up the stone and held it against the light .
luke ' s .
all red headed men who are sound in body and mind and above the age of twenty one years , are eligible .
black cap .
continued holmes ,
we 're looking to you , councillor , and to the other leading citizens , to help us in upholding law and order in this township .
amid the action and reaction of so dense a swarm of humanity , every possible combination of events may be expected to take place , and many a little problem will be presented which may be striking and bizarre without being criminal .
there 's the scarlet thread of murder running through the colourless skein of life , and our duty is to unravel it , and isolate it , and expose every inch of it .
he and his wife had five hundred pounds each .
those are the main facts of the case , stripped of all surmise , and stated as baldly as possible .
he could give no explanation save that it was about the time when the woman always went home .
but you have read the evidence .
i have had some very disagreeable associations in my life , i wish to forget all about them .
twice already in his career had holmes helped him to attain success , his own sole reward being the intellectual joy of the problem .
i have heard him talk of chicago .
here holmes drew a small tract , embellished with a rude engraving of the ancient manor house , from his waistcoat pocket .
get him out of england at any cost ,
he was of a sickly color , and his thin , sandy hair seemed to bristle up with the intensity of his emotion .
oh , you think so , do you ?
in that case i shall continue my professional round .
i never noticed that before .
we had risen to depart when baskerville gave a cry , of triumph , and diving into one of the corners of the room he drew a brown boot from under a cabinet .
whoever it was has failed to make his way in .
the woman who approached me was certainly that , and of a most uncommon type .
having tethered the horses , and bade lucy adieu , he threw his gun over his shoulder , and set out in search of whatever chance might throw in his way .
as you observe , this woman had plush upon her sleeves , which is a most useful material for showing traces .
i was aware of it ,
i could only check it by finding if she had , indeed , instituted divorce proceedings against her husband at or about the time of the tragedy .
holmes !
we have shared this same room for some years , and it would be amusing if we ended by sharing the same cell .
i had forgotten all about mawson 's in my joy .
it 's poor douglas .
our father would never tell us what it was he feared , but he had a most marked aversion to men with wooden legs .
he could not get help from outside , even if he had some one whom he could trust , without the unbarring of doors and considerable risk of detection .
then there was a knife , was there not ?
i lay upon my face and peered over with the spray spouting up all around me .
i had thought that it meant that we were to dig , but now , of course , i saw at once that i was wrong .
well i know that they would have had me do just what i have done , and throw the treasure into the thames rather than let it go to kith or kin of sholto or of morstan .
look at that !
i 'll be able to tell you more clearly then how this thing strikes me .
obviously they have been caused by someone who has very carelessly scraped round the edges of the sole in order to remove crusted mud from it .
i only caught a glimpse of her at the moment , but she was a lovely woman , with a face that a man might die for .
now , mr gilchrist , we are all quite alone here , and no one need ever know one word of what passes between us .
holmes gasped .
right !
and i also ,
who were these german people , and what were they doing living in this strange , out of the way place ?
there was no chance of finding footsteps in the mire , for the rising mud oozed swiftly in upon them , but as we at last reached firmer ground beyond the morass we all looked eagerly for them .
what can be done now ?
and now , having brought you up to date in the escaped convict , the stapletons , dr mortimer , and frankland , of lafter hall , let me end on that which is most important and tell you more about the barrymores , and especially about the surprising development of last night .
there are certainly objections .
our lady enters this room , and what does she do ?
back came an answer by return , saying that if i would appear next monday i might take over my new duties at once , provided that my appearance was satisfactory .
but that is not enough , mr holmes .
even that i could not bear to her .
this is a very important matter , small , ' he said , at last .
the blunt accusation , the brutal tap upon the shoulder what can one make of such a denouement ?
it was now in the hand of cecil barker , who held it towards us as we entered .
i am at a loss to know now why you did not advertise .
i was ruined , shamefully , hopelessly ruined .
no , sir , certainly not .
a fine child , mrs smith !
you have solved it !
he looked murder out of the only eye he could see with when we had finished , but he listened to reason and gave up the papers .
my theory certainly presents some difficulties .
suddenly my thoughts were interrupted by the sound of running feet behind me and by a voice which called me by name .
following his lead , we ascended five stories , until we found ourselves outside a half opened door , at which our client tapped .
you have come up from the south west , i see .
and yet it seems to me to be suggestive .
i found her very pale and distressed .
from the lower with a thick , hanging lip , and a long , straight chin suggestive of resolution pushed to the length of obstinacy .
she carried out every one of my injunctions to the letter , and certainly without her cooperation you would not have that paper in your coat pocket .
the aurora herself we hauled off and made fast to our stern .
now lead the way , and we shall soon see the end of this black business .
if he died like a dog among the mountains , what was to become of his revenge then ?
if necessary .
i really do sometimes think that you have powers that are not human .
you have no further evidence , i suppose , than that which you have placed before us no suggestive detail which might help us ?
and have i not cause for such a feeling ?
our clients were punctual to their appointment , for the clock had just struck ten when dr mortimer was shown up , followed by the young baronet .
i shall drop you a line before i leave .
you are not averse to this trip , watson ?
come and join us .
and you refused it ?
i should very much like to ask you one or two plain questions , to which i beg that you will give a plain answer .
with our black silk face coverings , which turned us into two of the most truculent figures in london , we stole up to the silent , gloomy house .
let these gentlemen hear of your most inexcusable conduct .
sterndale sat down with a gasp , overawed for , perhaps , the first time in his adventurous life .
thus they had renewed their friendship .
no , the murderer has escaped .
then , with a sudden shivering of glass , a bristle of glistening rifle barrels broke through each window , while the curtains were torn from their hangings .
you can imagine my surprise when i found that there was no one there .
the idea was in his head , since he spoke about it .
yes , a provisional one .
into this i rushed , engaged a bicycle , and was able to get started before the carriage was quite out of sight .
he is the king of all the blackmailers .
what does he do for a living ?
he is a mr godfrey norton , of the inner temple .
yes , sir such a thing has never happened during the many years that i have been here .
yet the matter was so delicate that i could not confide it to an agent without putting myself in his power .
you are in my power .
no , no , she was placed in the chair after the death of her husband .
you heard him yourselves to night .
holmes turned his light once more upon the footsteps in the dust .
we moved cautiously along the track as if we were bound for the house , but holmes halted us when we were about two hundred yards from it .
surely that is all simple and obvious ?
for ten years they were out of the world , and then came a day when they were free once more a day which edwards , who knew his men , was very sure would be an end of his life of peace .
if ever circumstantial evidence pointed to a criminal it does so here .
that is just the point which i want to come to , mrs douglas .
oh , man , it 's just inconceivable !
in the second case the result was complete .
i crept forward and looked across at the familiar window .
but they are men who will make a clean job when they are about it .
she and all the firemen smelled the burned flesh from inside it .
did you look at these papers on the table ?
mr merryweather is the chairman of directors , and he will explain to you that there are reasons why the more daring criminals of london should take a considerable interest in this cellar at present .
he put out his hand and coldly grasped that which she extended to him .
i was standing watching his pursuit with a mixture of admiration for his extraordinary activity and fear lest he should lose his footing in the treacherous mire , when i heard the sound of steps and , turning round , found a woman near me upon the path .
i do n't doubt it , mr holmes but that is no business of ours .
but if he had kept faith with me i should always have done so with him .
no doubt they want his professional services , but , having used him , they may be inclined to punish him for what they will regard as his treachery .
now he is off once more !
by jove , it 's as clear as day !
i am glad of that , mr holmes .
my uncle 's voice is always remarkably low .
if ever they were exerted it would be now .
it 's for the lodge to say that .
and let me say to you , first , that which it is hardest for me to say and for you to hear : there has been an understanding between sir george burnwell and your niece mary .
but at least there can be no reason why i should submit to the gibes of this person .
the strangers stood in a little group under the shadow of the engine house .
and two knight errants to the rescue ,
yet it was quite certain , from the absolute stillness , that we were in the country .
then , pray tell me what it is that you can infer from this hat ?
in a man it is perhaps better first to take the knee of the trouser .
surely the gate was open !
he had resumed his seat , the cigar still projecting at an insolent angle from the corner of his mouth .
it is equally certain that this house cannot be more than a mile or two from oxshott , since garcia was walking in that direction and hoped , according to my reading of the facts , to be back in wisteria lodge in time to avail himself of an alibi , which would only be valid up to one o'clock .
you may be cajoled into imagining that your own special trade or your own industry will be encouraged by a protective tariff , but it stands to reason that such legislation must in the long run keep away wealth from the country , diminish the value of our imports , and lower the general conditions of life in this island .
then the truth is too bad to tell ?
i fancy that he had taken steps to make that draught efficacious , and that he quite relied upon your being unconscious .
what do you advise that we do now ?
i 'll be as good as my word .
please , please , be frank with me , miss stapleton , for ever since i have been here i have been conscious of shadows all round me .
yes , yes it is cramp .
poor alice was so frightened that she shrunk away from him , but he caught her by the wrist and endeavoured to draw her towards the door .
next day you had my secret at your mercy , but you nobly refrained from pursuing your advantage .
you will find that it simply means ' come here at once .
my dear young lady !
you can see the outline of the edge of his small foot here at the side of this evil smelling mess .
but there 's something in inspector baynes which i can n't quite understand .
aye , there 's the genius and the wonder of the thing !
this is a farcical waste of time , but still , if nothing else will satisfy you , it shall be done .
holmes walked slowly up and down the ill trimmed lawn and examined with deep attention the outsides of the windows .
the kindly , charitable , good old governor how could he have fallen into the clutches of such a ruffian !
sorry to bring you out on such a fool 's errand , watson ,
your servant , miss morstan ,
his brother , who usually works with him , has not appeared in this job as far as can at present be ascertained , although the police are making energetic inquiries as to his whereabouts .
have you managed to find the secretary , mr joseph stangerson ?
this being so , it is impossible that you , who profess the holy creed , should suffer your daughter to violate it .
he added , turning round at the door : ' rache , ' is the german for ' revenge ' so do n't lose your time looking for miss rachel .
but that was all .
you can imagine , dr watson , how pleased i was at such an extraordinary bit of good fortune .
wonderful !